00:03Hello there. I'm Ryan Reynolds, yeah.00:08Now, Ryan Reynolds,00:10I'm a film actor. Occasionally I dabble in television and other industries. I'm also a father, but I'm ready to move on from all of that crap. So what's next? Wildlife, that's what. Nope, not these blowhards. They don't need my help. I'm here for these guys, nature's bench warmers. I'm talking Grade A freaks in their freaking, bizarre, weird, freak show lives. Get ready for the Underdogs. These guys are the grossest, weirdest, the most unlikely stars in the great movie of life beyond up now it's their time to shine. Wherever there is blatant mischief, wherever there is abject cowardice, wherever there is unbearable sexual tension, that's where you'll find the underdogs. You tell them, great day.01:35I'm Ryan Reynolds, and I endorse these spirits,01:52the tropical rainforest, Mother Nature's masterpiece, home to half of all the animal species on Earth,02:08including some real weirdos. Don't judge them here at underdogs, we celebrate the strange this little beauty is a velvet worm. And these things have been around since way before. The dinosaurs, like my mom, Tammy, and their ancestors, were some of the first creatures to ever walk on land. I say walk because Betty, I'm calling her. Betty is not really a worm.02:45She's got legs, legs for days, 40 pairs, to be specific. But while they maxed out on legs, velvet worms forgot about vision.03:02Betty Stiebel, feeble eyesight means she's totally oblivious to the fact that she is being watched. Ominous Music, please. The wolf spider has eight eyes greedy and they're fixed on Betty. The03:22snacks. She's03:24dead.03:34Spiders have spent their time on Earth honing their spidey senses to become the ultimate Venom packed killing machines. So it could be a bad day to be a six inch tube of protein bumbling through the forest.03:58Oh, God, this is too tense. And04:07yes, I'm so uncomfortable.04:17Betty, if you have a plan, I suspect You don't, now would be a good time. You04:47Oh, my Lord,04:52velvet worm slime would be a kindergarten teacher's worst nightmare. It's as sticky as super glue. It hardens in seconds and. And they can shoot it up to a foot. We will not be using it for craft. Time Betty, you Dark Horse. Welcome to the world of pathetic animals with superpowers. Say hello to the super zeros. No, I swear, Mom, that's velvet worm slime. Slime squirting. Betty is just the start. All over the world, there are underdogs who, like me, have mastered the art of overcoming their deficiencies. And, trust me, it's a superpower. In fact, if I was to come up with a totally made up reason to assemble a whole team of super zeros, I'd be spoiled for choice. And if you don't believe me, strap in for the ride my friends, Africa, land of wild giants, tall ones, horny ones, mighty ones. But if you're looking for somebody with a surprising superpower, you need to look beyond the usual suspects. They're not all they're cracked up to be. Don't, don't drink that. I want to introduce you to one of Africa's supporting cast, overlooked and undersized. You Hey, dodging death more times in a week than you will in a lifetime. No, not the bees. The meet Barry the honey badger. He's just been stung 106 times, and his week's just begun. Honey Badgers aren't afraid of anything, a kick from an ostrich to kill a lion. Barry didn't get that memo. So why do honey badgers laugh in the face of danger. It's because they're really, really dumb. No sir, hard to kill. It says hard to kill here, apologies. This superpower means that honey badgers can tackle the prey that most animals sensibly avoid their skin is tougher to get through than my five year old's dance recital, and like my five year old, they're shockingly resistant to venom. In fact, one in four of Barry's meals is a venomous snake i08:27that is spicy. Good week so far.08:36But how is Barry gonna cope when he's on the menu? I08:43African hunting dogs are one of the most efficient predators on the continent. They catch 80% of the things they chase, and if they catch it, they kill it or just eat it until it dies. The Oh, okay, ouch, ouch, ouch, look, look, look away. Now, kids, oh, now I know this is hard to watch, so if it makes things easier, I'm gonna let you know that Barry's gonna be fine. Okay, this is all in a day's work for this guy.09:30Not only is badger skin tougher than a $2 steak, it's also very baggy for the dogs, it's like trying to grab a football and a sack of grease.09:48Finally come to destroy the Earth, they'll have to deal with him first09:53the hunting dogs get an A plus for effort metal. Lifetime. But after trying their little hearts out to dismember the badger, the dogs start to run out of ideas. Eventually they admit defeat and go in search of something easier to kill, like Chuck Norris or or a tank, tough as balls, a little bruised and beaten, but soon Barry's back to his old self, living proof you should never underestimate the little guy indestructibility as superpowers go a Classic, but we need a full range of powers Next up, a peanut sized Super Zero with an awesome ability to escape detection by the bad guys most of the time, statistically speaking, meet Eric a glass frog. Two years they said I could get some. It's his favorite time of year when he and the other frogs all get together for an orgy. Scientists call this mating season. Eric, he didn't care what they call it. He's just orgy crazy. You? But in life, there are consequences. Eric is now a father to 263 babies from 12 different mothers. It's like a musician or a famous athlete, and in his world, it's the daddies who do the daycare.12:13Refreshing kind of questioning your life choices now, aren't you fella, but being a single parent is not Eric's superpower. We're coming to that he needs to keep these little muffins safe for two weeks until they hatch,12:32and this place is crawling with stranger danger. This is a Katie did? She has a taste for frog eggs? Who doesn't? And a beautiful smile. See, now we know Eric's a lover, but Is he also a fighter? Boom. I guess that's a yes, but that's not his superpower either. Eric has to stay put to guard the kids, but that puts him in danger too, a parrot snake. He loves to chew gum and kill frogs, and he's all out of gum. You now, like most dads of 263 children, this Papa is always on high alert for danger, right? Eric, Eric, do you think that I could end some Chicky? Chicky? Shame on14:01you. So disappointing. It looks like a bad time for a nap, but Eric has a weird ability that only happens when he sleeps.14:15As Eric dozes off, over 90% of his blood is redirected into his liver, which is covered in a reflective coating. He's becoming transparent, or should I say, invisible, Eric, you sly dog. But will it be enough to stop him from becoming snake food? You don't have eyes like this without being really good at seeing stuff. And when I say stuff, I mean Eric, you. Will it save him from being passed from the mouth into the body and through the anus of the killer? We don't know nothing to see here. Keep moving you. I don't know about you, but I'm clenching making freaking diamonds down there. Oh, that's a relief. And if Eric's safe, his kids are safe. And now the science, it says here that Eric's invisibility trick can make him 61% more transparent, though I can still see him a little bit, so maybe the snake is what, like 39% blind. I as he wakes up, Eric's blood spreads back around his body. He is totally oblivious to how close he came to death as he returns to the happy bliss of fatherhood. Oh, constant feeling of failure. I feel like I have a black belt in inadequacy. So sorry. We'll cut that out. Eric, the invisible frog, makes the team. But there's another Super Zero who can find anyone, no matter how well hidden they are, and she's even got a secret island base. Back when the dinosaurs ruled the earth, Madagascar broke away from Africa like an iceberg or a disillusioned member of a boy band who achieved disproportionate fame to the other members anyway, cut off from the other continents for 90 million years, the island's animals kind of branched out and did their own thing. Just one group, the lemurs, are now available in more than 100 different shades of cute and fluffy with those lovable puppy dog eyes, but local stories tell of a monstrous relative that lurks in the darkness. Whoa, whoa. Wow.17:44What is that?17:59This freakish Gremlin is the lemurs oddball, nocturnal cousin, an aye aye. She may look like fear and panic. Had a baby and rolled it in dog hair, but her strange collection of body parts give her the power to locate food where her pretty daytime cousins can't using echolocation, which sounds pretty superpowery, and something dumb that DC might use. And tonight, she's giving a masterclass to her son, because these Sonic superpowers have to be learned. I18:44It all starts with that skinny middle finger.18:53She begins to tap the middle finger on the bark up to eight times per second. So not what I use it for. Next, she uses those huge ears to listen for the echoes of her tapping, allowing her to form a picture of what's inside the tree.19:21Let's all be grateful our moms couldn't see through walls. Can you imagine, oh, things Tammy would have seen, the sock forest bingo a grub deep inside the rotting tree, caviar for aye eyes, or poutine for Canadians.19:53And now for his final lesson, the skinny fingers have another use the. They're perfect for reaching the places other fingers can't.20:13Oh so gross. Just gonna throw up my pants and pass away, if everyone's okay with that. Yep, your turn Junior, yeah, good luck with that. He's gonna become a master of the middle finger. The first thing is to figure out what to Tap you. Warmer, warmer, colder. How could anyone think these elegant, fine, featured little cuties aren't adorable?21:15Looks like he's finally hit the jackpot. Oh.21:28Oh, still, still, gross.21:33Go nature is the worst.21:40I eyes able to find food where no one else can, or, frankly, would want to anyway. Great range of powers in the team so far, but we're weak on offense. Let's take the plunge right to the bottom of the food chain,21:59the mermaid infested waters of the Caribbean, packed to the gills with glamorous life, but in any society, there are those at the top and then there are The bottom feeders getting crapped on from up high.22:22You say hello22:29to Mr. And Mrs. Pistol shrimp, the shrimp says, says they're enjoying a nutritious breakfast of fish feces on their front porch. Day for them, a safe, secure home is everything. Why? So crucial? Because shrimp are well, delicious. Tarpon love shrimp. Moray eels love shrimp, peeled shrimp, tempura shrimp, barbecue shrimp. Pretty much everyone loves shrimp. That's why our happy couple have dug their home under a sea anemone. It might look like crispy fried noodles, but an anemone is an animal covered all over with venomous stingers, providing these shrimps is with a built in electric fence, the shrimp aren't totally immune to the sting. They've just learned to live with the pain i It seems like a smart move by the shrimp, but their security system has one flaw, because there is a predator that specializes in eating anemones, a fire worm. Oh. This is the enemies that the enemy, that the enemy's an enemy. This is the enemy of that thing the shrimp live under. Yikes. I Is this the end for the shrimps tentacled bodyguard? Nope, the fireworm is about to discover that these teeny crustaceans have a superpower, a weapon so deadly it's like getting hit in the face with a nuke.24:57Wait, that's it. Oh.25:04It seems this awesome destructive power only lasts for 15 millionths of a second been there, so we're gonna have to slow it down a bit. Come on. Is that the best we could do?25:28So pistol shrimp snap their claws so fast they smashed the sound barrier. The implosion creates a tiny bubble. Oh, yes, that for a fraction of a second is as hot as the sun, yes, as hot as the sun. The superheated bubble sends a shock wave straight through the fire worm and kills it, as in, dead. Yep, Mr. And Mrs. Pistol shrimp. Humble, hard working and with an ask questions later, approach to home security you all well and good, but what happens if they lose a claw? Well, I know a guy who can fix that. He's got a great origin story. Aztec Legends say that long ago, two gods gave their lives to become the sun and the moon, but they got stuck and mobile in the sky, typical to get them moving. The other gods all agreed to lay down their lives, all except for one, shalottle. He ran away, jumped in a lake and transformed poor guy. He moves into a nice, quiet neighborhood, and a few centuries later, 20 million other people have moved in there too, the good people of Mexico City. Today, tourists come to the ancient lake to drink and make poor life choices. But beneath the surface, the descendants of shallot, god of fire and lightning, twin of the Feathered Serpent live on27:47as axolotls.27:53Now, I know you might think a god would turn into something cool, like a giant snake or something, but these guys, they look more like an overgrown tadpole the size of a wiener with gills like a frilly and feather boa. And as for his hunting skills, they're How can I put this underwhelming In fairness, today he's got other things on his Mind, ungodly things. Oh, I know that. Look. Oh, yeah, there are less than 1000 axolotls left in the wild. So these two lovebirds might be responsible for the fate of their whole species. No pressure, guys. Oh,29:12oh, what the29:15axolotis interrupt us? Oh, geez, that's gonna sting. Sucks to be you.29:40For most of us, losing a limb is a pretty big deal, but not for this guy, all he needs to do is lie low for a while and let his superpower do its super thing.29:58Something's missing. My life,30:04while Mexico City Life goes on all around the lake, our little hero is regenerating a whole new leg. Air. Sleep with time, axolotls can regrow almost anything, their nervous system, their brain, their heart. How about my dignity or a fragile global economy? In just three months, he's fully stocked with limbs and ready to look for love again. Attaboy, it's not long before he tracks down his lady. I I'm not sure exactly how axolotls have sex, but I am sure I don't want to see it ever Let's just cut to the artwork quickly, the Axolotl cheating death thanks to the power to regrow body parts, this may just be my favorite so far. You see, if you set aside the lightly glossed over reasons for doing it, we've built a great team, but the greatest Super Zero of all is yet to come.31:46Oh, look, it's everyone's least favorite housemate, the cockroach. They can survive a nuclear apocalypse on nothing but crumbs,32:00and they're really, really hard to squish. So is the cockroach our absolute Super Zero? Nope, too predictable. We're here for her a jewel wasp. Don't be fooled by the pretty face. She's a parasitic wasp. I don't know what that means, but I'm guessing I'm about to find out. Turns out she's the cockroaches arch nemesis, a freeloader with a mind blowing super power and well, let's just say she doesn't use her powers for good. Better run, fella. You but while the cockroach can run, he hasn't really figured out how to hide. That's no that's not hiding, that's just that's waiting around for your demise. It's the jewel wasp stings with the accuracy of a brain surgeon and targets a very specific part of the roaches brain, but she's not trying to kill the roach. Oh no. Her sting has flooded his brain with dopamine. Stop. Meaning right now, I'd say this little guy is tripping balls, riding a unicorn across the apocalypse, yeah, just like a demon cowboy, nothing but a hat perspiration as his mind turns to mush, the cockroach becomes a zombie, totally Within the wasps power.34:37She chews off an antenna. I34:48He uses it like a straw to sample the Roach's bodily fluids. Satisfied the wasp. Bleeds the roach off like a giant zombie dog on a leash. So she's got the power to control minds. But why you ask? Oh, she's an expectant mom. Oh, that baby smell, here, one day gone the next. Only raising children is hard work, so she's gonna have the cockroach do it for her. Hey, roach, blink twice if you're not okay. I'm kidding, joking. You don't have eyelids. This tiny little bundle of joy is a jewel Wasp egg.35:54Mom's role is nearly complete.36:01All that's left to do is for her to gently bury the cockroach alive. She leaves her precious egg to hatch and burrow into the Roach's body.36:29I've got you under my skin. I've got you deep in the heart of me. So deep in my heart, you're really a part of me I36:57got you after eating her victim from the inside out the fully grown larva transforms into an adult Wasp, ready to wield its dastardly mind controlling power. Turns out the final Super Zero is a super villain that's so post modern.37:30Oh, look, she's got her mom's eyes. Yes, I've got you just where I'm guys you you might want to look behind you guys.37:53We got everything. Anything else that's not a super zero Wolverine is actually an antiquated Canadian word that means boring millionaire. I'm sorry, what's that? No, it's not. It is boring bougie millionaire. You know what I mean?38:15You
00:03Hello there. I'm Ryan Reynolds, yeah.00:08Now, Ryan Reynolds,00:10I'm a film actor. Occasionally I dabble in television and other industries. I'm also a father, but I'm ready to move on from all of that crap. So what's next? Wildlife, that's what. Nope, not these blowhards. They don't need my help. I'm here for these guys, nature's bench warmers. I'm talking Grade A freaks in their freaking, bizarre, weird, freak show lives. Get ready for the Underdogs. These guys are the grossest, weirdest, the most unlikely stars in the great movie of life beyond up now it's their time to shine. Wherever there is blatant mischief, wherever there is abject cowardice, wherever there is unbearable sexual tension, that's where you'll find the underdogs. You tell them, great day.01:35I'm Ryan Reynolds, and I endorse these spirits01:52for animals, life is kind of like a game. They need to gather resources and overcome obstacles to achieve their objectives, and02:05this game is hard, especially for an underdog, so sometimes You have to play dirty to win. And I mean disgusting. Hang on to your lunch, kids, because it's time to play total gross out.02:38First up somebody who's found a whole new way to protect themselves from predators on the reefs of Polynesia. You'll get that joke in a second. This is a pearl fish, and right now she has a pretty big problem. She's almost invisible in the nighttime, but she stayed out past her bedtime, and if a predator spots her now it's gonna be game over. Yeah? Like that. That's one way to go, right? Let's try again. Okay, Pearl fish, round two. Okay, swimming, swimming, yada yada, yada yada, staying away from the bad guys. No, yep, nope, nope, not that way. Gotta find a hiding place and fast, nope, nope, not there. Now, if you've played video games at all, you know there's a boss around here somewhere. And if you're a real gamer, you know there's two options, run toward danger and fight, or hide and hope it goes away. And what do we have here? A gigantic sea turd. Let's pixelate that out. Oh, no, Nathan, that's no that is a sea cucumber. I'm so sorry. That's not. That is not the of a lumberjack, if I may say so, it not only oozes deadly toxins, but it also breathes out of its butt. Because dreams really do come true, but when your life depends on it, sometimes it got to get a little creative. Is that it yawning with its butt? Okay, okay, well, whatever it's doing is that open portal presents the pearl fish with a solution. Understandably. See if that sea cucumber is a little unsure. I know I would be, but it can't plunge forever. Now is her chance. A layer of mucus protects her from the toxins and Oh, reverse parking the you see the underdogs, they know that in the game of life, an unthinkably revolting solution can save your ass and an ass can save your life. Who has access to my memoir and why is this plagiarized? But you can't solve all your problems by hiding in a butthole. Sometimes the game of life requires you to go on the offensive, and these filthy animals invented the term offensive. Actually, it was the Romans. The Romans invented the word offensive and Rubicon and scuttlebutt. Sorry, what's that? No. Anyway, this adorable little creature is a tortoise beetle, and at first glance, she's not disgusting at all, which is refreshing. Clean feet, clean antenna. She does not like dirt, one bit. Total meat freak, which is unfortunate, and she's about to become a new mom. And as we all know, kids are absolutely disgusting, all of them, yep, yours too, yeah, and mine, full hazmat. They may be just the size of a grain of rice. I'm guessing that's short grain, not long, but they're still big eaters. I pipes, and all that food has to go somewhere, and that somewhere, yup, is a couple of poop collecting spikes right next to their butts. Oh, my, it just gets worse. But notice that Mama beetle, she's not reaching for the baby wipes, and that's because all this dried on poop has a purpose. Killer ants would devour her newborns without a moment's hesitation. And I wonder, are they available for babysitting. Ants hunt by smell, and can sniff out beetle larvae faster than your uncle Tim can chug a box of Chardonnay at Christmas08:15time for mom to put her disgust aside and reveal her tactical genius, like a well drilled Roman army, her poop encrusted Babies line up into formation, and mom climbs aboard the08:44Maximus momumus has a plan. They just need to hold.08:57Hold I09:04hold09:11present arms and wave that hoop. Thankful, baby. We for an ant that can't see very well and lives in a world of scent, this experience must be a little unexpected. Apparently, the world's greatest scientists are still debating exactly how the poop waving repels the ant, really? They think that's a mystery. I think my fellow parents will agree that when it comes to chemical weapons, dirty diaper, when it feeds, just about anything, I. So playing dirty can keep you and your offspring in the game. But what about when the game is an epic quest, and I don't know what if science was real and called it migration10:30Sea Cows.10:38Now I know what you're thinking. Manatees aren't gross. They're adorable, the mythical inspiration for mermaids, but I assure you, the gross is coming meet our hard working single mom and her precious only child. We're going to call her nezzy, except all the letters are silent. It's pronounced it's winter here in Florida, and it's very cold for manatees, but mom has a plan, and she's taking little nezzy to a very special, almost sacred place, where the water is warm and manatees assemble once a year like a manatee Christmas or Coachella without all the sex drugs and dysentery. The problem is it's hundreds of miles away, and there's another thing mom and nezzy are running out of fuel. Mom needs to make a pit stop to feed herself and get nezzy The milk she desperately needs to complete the journey, lots of sea grass down there. So you know what's the problem? Well, the problem is, mom is a bit of a Yeah, a floater gas from all her previous grassy meals has built up in her body, causing her to become stranded at the surface. And if she can't feed herself or nezzy, they'll die. And whose fault is that Mom, if only nature had a way of expelling excess gas from the body. Oh,12:42yeah. Like, a proof.12:45While these bubbles are something you never want to see in a shared bath on a first date, they're a vital part of buoyancy control for manatees. It's like the submarine movie when Sean Connery is like, dive, dive, you stupid boys, but he's playing a Russian but he's speaking with a Scottish accent, because, you know, movie star's lazy anyway, having lost gas and descended, she can finally gorge herself on sea grass. Then it's back to the surface for nezzy to get her meal by latching onto a nipple in mom's armpit. There's nothing weird about that at all. Accept it, let it happen, and then it's swim, eat, fart, repeat like Uncle Tim on New Year's13:54Eve, all the way to their paradise destination.14:01Lovely. But they don't care about the view. The water from the power plant is clean and it's warm and winter here is like one giant, communal, bodily, gas powered Jacuzzi spa from hell, like only Florida could deliver everything a manatee mom and calf could ask for you kick back and relax nezzy, you earned it. Self Defense. Epic quests, let's keep this gross gameplay going by meeting an underground underdog.14:48We're deep down inside a New Zealand cave, but someone down here is about to turn on the lights. I.15:13Venture, venture down here after dark, and you're gonna feel like you've been cast as an extra, an avatar, or you've accidentally dropped acid instead of aspirin. So who's the creator of this dazzling array? This filthy dungeon dweller is the larva of a carnivorous fungus gnat, and she is hungry. Oh, this twinkly stuff is her way of luring in the food she needs to transform into an adult. And the key to it all is mucus. For over 200 days, she and her friends dribble out strings of special slime, festooning their NAT cave with a combination of urea, silk and water. The episode, it's called total gross out. You knew what you were getting into. Then the final touch using a chemical reaction in their buds. Yep, you heard me. They light up their garlands like snot chandeliers to create the world's most beautiful death trap. The here comes the perfect victim, a mayfly, high in protein, but low in smarts, all he sees is a beautiful night sky to navigate by17:15Now comes phase two of the fungus gnat strategy i17:26She slowly hauls up the still alive mayfly into her loving embrace. By loving embrace, I mean that she liquefies his body and sucks him up like a milkshake. A few more meals like this, and she turns herself in to a pupa, even though, rightly, it should probably be the authorities. And 12 days later, she emerges as a magnificent adult butterfly, no, she hatches into an adult carnivorous fungus gnat. Gross, ready to carpet the heck out of that. DM, Hello World. Hello sky. You Oh, hello, neighbors, death traps, not hammock. Well, I never said she was smart. Circle of Life, bye for now. So an occasional act of grossness can help you beat a level. But some underdogs have made being filthy their entire gameplay strategy.18:58This is a three Toad sloth.19:08He's never washed ever,19:17and now there's an entire ecosystem living off the dirt in his fur, turning him green, but that is his secret hack. As long as he stays in the canopy, being green and grimy, keeps him hidden from his main predator,19:51the harpy eagle. The.20:04But these sloths like to live dangerously in the slow lane. About once a week, these unsung daredevils leave the safety of the canopy to climb all the way down their tree, an activity so dangerous more than half of them die doing it. Oh, think that was Uncle Allen, see you in the next life, buddy. Now, science may have finally figured out the mystery of why these sloths would make a move so dangerous, so often, an immediate game over, and we can reveal the answers just as soon as he gets there, which will take a long time.20:52Come on, man, time is money. Come on. Let's go, brother, every moment your life is at risk. You21:07I'm sorry this can take how long? No, we don't have time for that. Yes, you're right. I don't have time for that. Yes, I'm costing you a lot of money. Let's move on. Some underdogs are so deeply into gross out tactics, they actually find it a turn on.21:36But I'm not telling you anything more, because you're probably not even a real therapist. This is Ireland, and this is Craig, a male Red Deer hoping to mate for the first time. He's just got one problem. The mating season is a little fighty males beat the crap out of one another in a predictably macho attempt to impress the ladies. I22:41You dumb buck. And no one is worse than this guy, Craig's arch rival, the dominant male. But some of the ladies, they can sniff out an insecure alpha a mile away.23:07This is Jane Doe, a deer, a female deer. I'm so sorry I had to do it. And to use local parlance, she thinks the DOM is a lazy, beef witted stick. But Craig, he's not like those other bucks. He's a nice guy. He all he's got to do is get Jane to notice him. The trouble is, when it comes to strategies for impressing Jane that don't involve fighting, most of the guys have no idea, I'm so sorry. Won't happen again, and some of them just aren't into Jane in the first place. You but Craig knows there is one other thing a male deer can do to impress a female. He waits until just the right moment. And sweet. Michael Fassbender, now that is a move. Oh, Craig, you crazy. I think I want to have your baby. Craig is spraying himself in a mixture of pee and semen on purpose, as cologne goes well, that's a bold choice, but thanks to all those sweet smelling pheromones, Jane loves it, and while the DOM is busy fighting, she sneaks off for a round with fragrant Craig. I. Avert your eyes. This isn't for you. This is just for me. Okay, that one's fast way to level up. Craig, I guess beauty really is in the eye of the beholder, or in this case, the nose. I You think that was gross, hold on your hippos, because it's time for a full on assault as salt, as salt. So25:45me, this is okay. I'm gonna just call him Po. After a hard day patrolling the river bank, he's heading back to his wallow, to the somewhat awkward company of his many exes and26:06His various kids.26:19Oops, mine a little one the Poe's peaceful home life is about to get turned upside down.26:29Upriver water holes are drying up. Space is running out. Rival males are starting battles over access to deep water.26:42I and26:59when two of the most dangerous animals on the planet go head to head. Outcomes can be decisive. Now one of the most murdery of all these Roly Poly anger bags is heading in Poe's direction, looking for a spot to steal, even If it means killing Poe and stealing his family. You. Now, but Poe's Well, he's not doing anything. Po Did you hear me? He's a maniac. He's gonna steal your home. You could lose your family. It's time to do something. But po isn't crazy enough to take this intruder on face to face, not when He's got a special ability in his skill set, where the family knows what's coming,28:52and they do not want to be collateral. I28:54ain't trying to bring you down. You might as well give up now. Think you got a chance, but I don't see half got a real tight Kripke came here ready to fight on this night, you bitches.29:14Oh, special move is to spray his rival with his own feces. Yes, there it is.29:28There are those who tastefully call this defense a defecation fan, and note the oscillation, the skill, the poise, but I know a poop NATO when I see one. The bad guy can't get out of there fast enough.29:54That's one way to defeat the big bad boss at this level, I.30:04Leaving po and his family safe.30:14And while we're on the topic of winning, looks like Mr. Persistence here has finally reached the bottom of the tree, but will never reach the Olympics. But why spend an eternity descending into dangerous territory so he can download his weekly poop at ground level. Yes, he could have dropped it out of a tree like a jungle meteorite, I would have but he risked danger for the sake of these guys, the roughly 120 moths living on his disgusting body are the key to his life saving camouflage, but they can only lay their eggs down here in his excrement. Some sloth poofologists think that by holding it in until he reaches the bottom of the tree, the sloth helps breed camouflaging moths, which keep him green by pooping in his fur, so he can poop more safely, and then they can lay babies in the poop, and he can poop, and they can poop and so on for the rest of time. Now, all he has to do is climb back up. Good luck. The world's underdogs have gross out moves for overcoming just about every problem life can throw at them. So just how gross do you have to be to succeed. And the most challenging level of all, a massive multi character arena based death match, or as it's known in the animal kingdom, the African savannah, chock full of swaggering Big Shot bosses like these Showboats, the trick is like prison. The first day, you gotta shank the biggest guy. You see, you gotta establish dominance. So when they're taking all the best loot for themselves. The underdogs have to win the game another way, by getting over their gag reflex and going for the stuff nobody else wants, in this case, a tasty smorgasbord of awful intestines and bones seasoned with a pinch of anthrax, a dash of botulism and cholera to taste. It's like nature's gas station sushi, but less biochemical weaponry, not my idea of lunch. But then I'm not one of these guys. Neat. Username, viscera Voyager 23 i because noob Master 69 had some rights issues. Vultures aren't big on hunting or fighting, but when it comes to happily devouring the contents of a rancid fly infested boneyard, they are the pro gamers. To keep this metaphor going, their stats are impressive. They could fly up to 35,000 feet, cover 200 miles a day and spot a three foot carcass from four miles away. I and when VV 23 drops in, she squads up with a whole party of sidekicks, each with a special skill set more disgusting than the last. She viscera Voyager is what scientists call a ripper, or what Australians call a ripper, great at breaking down the tough stuff. Well, her buddy Gore Reaper is a gopher with a head specially suited to getting the good stuff out of all those hard to reach places i. And player three. Insert name is what's known as a scrapper, and he's going in for just a little slice. And finally, there's butt guy, not exactly an attribute, more of a personal preference. You go get them. Bucha.35:27When it comes to mining a putrefying carcass, everyone can play a part. End of the day, vultures are team players in the game of Life. Not36:01only would the world be knee deep in dead bodies, without them, their super strong stomach acid digests away all the toxins, all the bacteria that, if left unchecked, will leave other animals terribly sick or crapping through the eye of the needle, literally, and some might even say heroically, saving their lives. So thanks to the vultures, the world is kept clean of disease, pestilence and well, whatever it is that guy is eating, and Mother Nature and all her charges can keep on playing the oh, what's that? Well, thank you. You're welcome. Mr. Buffalo, there you have it, the underdog secret to winning the game of life simply by being their disgusting selves. I So bring on the poop. Bring on the butt burp buoyancy aids, the defecation fans show me the snot hammocks, shower me in same in scented cologne, install me a butthole safe room. Okay, even I've hit my own gross out limit. So let's just we're gonna shut it down.37:24You.
00:00The following program portrays animals engaging in sexual activity. Viewer discretion is advised. I mean, I'm letting my kids watch it, but you probably have higher standards. Hello there. I'm Ryan Reynolds, yeah. Now, Ryan Reynolds, I'm a film actor. Occasionally. I dabble in television and other industries. I'm also a father, but I'm ready to move on from all of that crap. So what's next? Wildlife, that's what. Nope, not these blowhards. They don't need my help. I'm here for these guys, nature's bench warmers. I'm talking Grade A freaks in their freaking, bizarre, weird freak show lives.00:57Get ready for the Underdogs. These guys are the grossest, weirdest, the most unlikely stars in the great movie of life. Now it's their time to shine wherever there is blatant mischief, wherever there is abject cowardice, wherever there is01:26unbearable sexual tension, that's where you'll find the underdogs. You tell them, Green Day, I'm not a loser. I'm not a loser.01:46Sir, I'm Ryan Reynolds, and I endorse these periods,02:02some laws of nature are incontrovertible, and one of the big ones is the need to reproduce or there'd be no Itty Bitty Baby animals. The trouble with sex, and really, where do I begin? Is that you can't do it alone.02:26No comment.02:30So the first step is choosing your partner, and that's true whether you're an A list animal or one of the underdogs.02:42This is happy the hyena. He may be one of the ugliest outcasts in Africa, but don't feel sorry for him. He's having the best day, morning run, little self care. Not your episode. Barry, keep moving. A nice snack.03:15Life couldn't get any better than this.03:22What Where could it like a hormonal teenager at a middle school dance happy has a new and irrepressible urge to find a girlfriend, but that's not easy when these are the girls, hyenas take female empowerment to the maximum. They're aggressive, dominant and automatically outrank all males. And if that's not intimidating enough, they also have these pseudo penises, that's fun to say, giant female genitalia. They're for peeing, standard giving birth, Fauci and making mating difficult for males. Tough break fella, as first loves go. They're not for the faint of heart, but happy is an optimist, and he's just fallen in love with a stone cold knockout. Maybe he should just ask her out. He's a six, maybe six and a half. He could show her all the fun stuff he likes. Maybe they could do it together, the fun stuff, not the. Yeah, happy knows nothing about relationships, but like any self respecting male, he's not gonna let ignorance hold him back from taking a shot. Ready, shoot, aim is what I say. I in case you don't speak hyena, that's a no and no is a complete sentence when it comes to the need to go to funky town, you can't skip straight to the end. You just You just can't. You have to learn the rules and put in the work. Though, first things first, you need to attract their attention. You unlike some of their more colorful cousins, Bower, birds can't rely on plumage alone to draw attention to themselves, so males spend their whole lives compensating painfully familiar to males of all species, these guys, they built extravagant bachelor pads known as Bowers all over town, sometimes in truly underdog locations. And if that wasn't sad enough, these deluded loners surround these Bowers with obsessively collected colorful knickknacks in the hope of impressing a potential girlfriend. But there's always that one guy who takes a good idea too far, and Sebastian here has meticulously curated 361 items of colorful trash in the hope it'll win him a mate.07:12Good luck Sebastian. It's a collection that's taken most of his adult life,07:22but it will all be worth it, if it's good enough to dazzle a female and is sticking around long enough to mate with him. So far, it's not been enough, but Sebastian has a solution. Rather than admit that he might be the problem, he's decided to expand his collection, and the best way to do that is to steal from someone else's but what to choose? I08:14means bingo, and while he's at his rival's place, He figures he can try just a teeny bit of wanton vandalism.08:30Sebastian used small minded back home. He adds item 362 to his collection. And when a female finally comes along, he's hoping this new addition will make all the difference. She's ready. All Sebastian needs is to stay focused and show her something worth sticking around for09:02now. Focus. What will she like best? Nope, what about this? No, I was kidding. Okay, this thing? No, you're right, that's terrible. No, definitely not. I don't even know who that belongs to.09:27Okay, time for the showstopper, the finest thing he owns in the world. Sure, it's the baubert equivalent of screaming I love you on a first date, or you'll always compete with my mother if we Anyway, she's gonna go for it, or maybe not. How worries Sebastian, who needs a mate when you have a man cave and. Internet. However you try to impress a potential partner, it's always a good idea to know your audience.10:17But be warned, whatever you think you've got going for you. Women are usually looking for something completely different.10:42This is little nose, kind of an ironic nickname. She's a proboscis monkey. She hangs out with a bunch of sisters, girlfriends and loose acquaintances in one big happy girl group, plus this guy. Oh, I get why she's called little nose. Now I snow. All her gal pals have babies, cute ones, she's decided that it's time to have one of her own, which means it's time to hit the apps and find Mr. Right. He must be out there somewhere. Little knows his day starts well, like every other day with the search for food, mature leaves are all poisonous, and that means looking for tender young shoots that are slightly less likely to kill you. But today, her schedule is about to get a little more exciting. You12:04words got out that she's looking for love.12:12And the local bachelor pack are pretty confident they've got just the thing she's looking for. Meet bachelor number one. He enjoys jazz, long walks, romantic nights in uh huh, sure he does. She'd rather eat the poisonous leaves. Introducing bachelor number two, a muscular bombshell. He's hoping to impress her with his athletic prowess, Oh, no.12:53Maybe just walk that off, right? No, maybe not.13:02Try. Trouble is for all their conventional qualities. These youthful, vigorous males don't possess the special something little nose is looking for. But when you rejected all the bachelors, where's left to look? Nope, no, definitely not. Okay. He's old enough to be her grandpa. He's clearly behind on dental hygiene. That's gonna come back to haunt you. But you know what's gonna come back to haunt you? Even worse, the rash that's contagious. You're gonna have that all over the place. But there is something about him, and it turns out it's exactly the thing she's been looking for, throbbing off the scales, truly enormous nose. And in the pro bosses world, that's a sign of one very specific detail, bigger cojones, Crown Jewels, little lads. I like that one, or, as the scientists insist, I say, smooth criminals, sorry, testicles, testicles, testicles, which means a little quality time with him, is her best chance of getting what I believe those scientists call, knocked out. Sure he may already have made it with four besties, eight girlfriends, 16 neighbors, and someone's grandma,14:34but all those ladies can't be wrong. Better luck next time bachelors, truth is without the nose, you never stood a chance. Turns out, hate to say it, size does matter, damn it,14:58but love isn't. Not always that shallow. Sometimes it's not what you've got, but what you do with it that counts. Strategy is everything. Remember happy, he's had a long, hard look at his situation, and he's had an idea15:30with no other way to win the heart of a female that outsizes and outranks him, he's decided he's simply going to follow her for as long as it takes maybe forever in the human world, this level of persistence would land you a restraining order and two, possibly four years in prison, to say nothing of The fact that it makes you a super creep. You but for hyenas, it's a tried and tested way to demonstrate your total devotion.16:17Good luck with that, buddy. You16:27so you've chosen the one and come up with a surefire strategy to win their heart, but it's still a crowded arena out there. The next stage is to fend off the competition.16:50This male Turkey is looking for a mate, and despite having a deeply underdog appearance, his sexy shimming has still attracted some females. He just needs to close the deal by flopping out his most dazzling feature, his snood, that's frankly like a dangly extendable nose sock, not for injectables typically, but you know, you could probably get some work done on that thing. Astonishingly, that's all it takes. And the Turk lady lies down to signal she's ready. It's all going perfectly to plan, until sock blocked and by his own brothers, Bone Crusher, bloodbather and18:16wing slap, once they Were nest mates, now love has made them bitter rivals.18:32In Turkey world, only one male can breed, and our guy is getting his ass handed to him by Ian.18:53From now on, Ian will be the sole headliner19:02all the other males will be the sad backup dancers that no one remembers for the rest of time because the entertainment industry has failed to honor their craft properly. So although he still gets to shinny, he'll be shaking his feathers to attract more females for Ian to mate with a literal wing man, but surely it doesn't apply to his girlfriend. Maybe she'll still mate with him. She liked his snood.19:39Nope. She's more of a rip your heart out kind of gal, yeah, you Ian, yeah, you forever. Thanksgiving is starting to look pretty damn good. You.20:00It, even when love seems hopelessly out of reach, you should never lose faith, because there's always another day. Meet our blubberiest Underdog yet, a young male elephant seal. He's hoping to breed and has just spotted an opportunity, but he's hit a little snag. 4000 pounds of naked fury. We've just caught him trying to mate with his girlfriend. Been there?20:50No? Run, run, run, run. Oh, you're so dead. Oh, my God, you're so dead. Our little runt is about to get the beating of his life and all for the sake of love. Is it worth it? Keep watching.21:18Once a year, eager male elephant seals approach the shores of California with one thing in mind, mating and with hundreds of females on the beach, the odds they're pretty good, right? But there's a problem. Come on. You saw that coming. They've got to get past the beach Master, I promise you, that's the scientific term and the nickname for my mom when I was trying to sneak back into the house. Okay, moving on. He's the largest male in the area. Two tons of unrepressed anger and control issues there'll be beat the crap out of anyone who tries to mate with his fan base of adoring females. Those females also act like security, alerting the big guy to any intruders. But some females are looking for more than just a beefcake. They'll go for smaller, sensitive sorts, like our guy, but he's going to need to pick the perfect moment. The fertile females are the ones in the middle of the colony. The challenge is try to sneak past the guards and mate with a willing partner behind the beach Master's back. It's not long before he sees his opening. The arrival of a second beach master. Wait a second beach master, and that gives Mr. Underdog just what he needs. A diversion. You while the tattletales have their eyes on the big boy beach fight, our guy picks both a safe word and a safe route toward the fertile females. By the way, the safe word is pumpkin spice. He23:49won't have long. He doesn't need long.23:58Oh, there goes the alarm and son of a beach master, here comes the beating. Pumpkin spice. Pumpkin spice. Pumpkin spice. Right back to where we started. But it turns out he had just enough time to get the job done before he was caught. So is the punishment worth it? You bet it is. No one knows more about suffering for love than happy24:35the Hopelessly Devoted hyena. There's the woman of his dreams. But where's happy? Has he finally done just a skosh of internal work, realized his own self worth and developed a little dignity? No, he's a male and he likes. This plan.25:17But while some focus on finding the one, not everybody stops at one. Some animals prefer to keep their options wide open.25:36Welcome to Madurai, India, the unlikely home of the darkest detective in the DC universe, the fruit bat. Not the toughest name, of course, yeah, but you know who is tough? Bruce Webb, nope. Hold on. I'm sorry. They're telling me that it's Barbara. Barbara's the top actually makes a lot more sense. Barbara, so Riddle me this Babs, who's going to be your sexual sidekick? Out of the many eligible male fruit bats, which one will be brave enough,26:16bold enough to be the father of and that is gross. I'm so sorry, Barbara that, yeah, that's the right reaction. Just that's a total red flag. Red flag. How many watch lists is that guy on? That's yeah, oh my lord.26:41Moving on, someone new just appeared on Barbara's radar. Okay, he's not the most impressive specimen of bat manhood you've ever seen, but let's just be happy that Barbara seems to have found her mate. Like most relationships, it's kind of messy, but maybe this is the start of something really beautiful. Nope, yeah, he's gone. I knew my dad longer than that, but it turns out Barbara the fruit bat is ready for a sequel immediately. She wants the best possible father for her little bat babies. So she's auditioning other applicants. And this next Joker has a cunning plan for giving himself the best chance of landing the role.27:36He's going to how can I put this? He's gonna, he's gonna clear out the Bat Cave. Oh, my. Oh, I was so afraid this was gonna be weird. But no, that's Yeah.27:53Experts think this licking removes the previous male's sperm and Barb has no objections. The longer he licks, the longer she'll let him mate. This nail is the first of many sequels in this bat girls, unique franchise, one after another, after another. That's sex scientists, which is a real career that you can choose. Don't exactly know why Barbara mates with so many males, but it may be her way of ensuring the strongest sperm succeeds. That's the way things work in the DC universe. Well, I mean, who am I to judge by now, you might be wondering if all underdog relationships are all about combat, competition and soul crushing, rejection, and you would be right, but all that Pain fades when you finally find your perfect partner. You This is a leopard slug. These guys are relationship experts, and this one right here is looking for the one you I would like to resume my life at some point. So let's maybe speed this up. Somewhere in this charming French cellar, is another slug equally eager to breed. So this slug lays down a trail of highly alluring slime packed with stinky pheromones for the other slug to detect and follow. I30:37think they found it. I ever pheromones by leopard's love.30:50Now that they found each other, it's time to take things to the next level. Together. They descend on a foot long rope of self made mucus, entwining their bodies to make sure that no one can leave until both partners are fully satisfied. The French kiss. No, that's Oh, no, no. Those aren't. Oh, those aren't. Those aren't tongues. They're Oh, those are, those are penises. Peni, is that what you say? Is that what the slugs say, and that's the reason these slugs are so egalitarian. Both partners have male and female genitalia, and both give and receive sperm, which they can each use to fertilize their own eggs. Then Ah, yes. Au revoir. Could count on both hands how many times I've left a relationship this exact way last slug swinging gets to eat the mucus. No, thank you. So there you have it. The underdogs guide to navigating the good, the bad and the ugly of relationships, and a friendly reminder that everyone deserves a little love except happy who's finally when he's hit rock bottom, basically doing the hyena equivalent of crying into his drink. You know, let's just, you know, I think we should just spend just spend some money on Michael Bolton.32:44There you go. Oh, that's good. Oh, he speaks for those who can't speak for themselves.33:00I didn't come into breakdown. It's just a dream of33:12mine is coming today, and how can I blame you when I build my world around the hope that one day we'd be so much more than planned? Want to know the price I'm gonna pay for dreaming even now it's more than I can take. But34:01if I know anything about rom coms, and I don't, I just did everything Sandra Bullock told me to do, it's that rock bottom is a solid foundation upon which you build true love and happy Well, he's gonna give it one last shot. I hold the phone. Wait could happy his luck be turning around. Oh. After weeks of quiet, unmitigated contempt, it looks like he's finally about to get his happy, and it don't know gonna stay away from that. He's gonna get his at the ending. He just, he's gonna, he's gonna. Oh no, he is going to get the dishes done. Can you say that now she begins to follow him. Hold your nerves. She almost certainly won't kill you. All that's left to solve is the pseudo penis situation. She does this by rolling it back like a retractable shutter. It's kind of like, it's kind of like, how do you describe it? Like? It's like turning a sock inside out using a banana with no hands. So after all that waiting, when it does happen, it's not exactly fireworks, but for happy, it's like all his birthdays have come at once. It's like his dreams came true, his dreams, his soaking wet dreams. So how's everyone else doing? Sebastian now has 1009 items of garbage, but still, predictably, has no girlfriend. Little nose has the baby that she's always dreamed of and hardly misses single life at all. Ian learned a valuable lesson about karma. Our elephant seal lover boy is bulking up, getting spray tanned, ready to become next year's Mr. Beach master. The slugs, they are still leaving. And Barbara, she has her own cinematic universe, comprising of eight sequels, two reboots and a Bollywood musical in the works. Now that is how you release that girl you.Hello there. I'm Ryan Reynolds, yeah.00:08Now, Ryan Reynolds,00:10I'm a film actor. Occasionally I dabble in television and other industries. I'm also a father, but I'm ready to move on from all of that crap. So what's next? Wildlife, that's what. Nope, not these blowhards. They don't need my help. I'm here for these guys, nature's bench warmers. I'm talking Grade A freaks in their freaking, bizarre, weird, freak show lives. Get ready for the Underdogs. These guys are the grossest, weirdest, the most unlikely stars in the great movie of life beyond up now it's their time to shine. Wherever there is blatant mischief, wherever there is abject cowardice, wherever there is unbearable sexual tension, that's where you'll find the underdogs. You tell them, great day.01:35I'm Ryan Reynolds, and I endorse these spirits.01:56Welcome to my home. It's a busy temple overlooking the Indian Ocean and a beautiful setting for an ingenious hustle. This is me, a long tailed macaque. Some say I sound like Ryan Reynolds. I don't know why. I've never been to Canada.02:31This is the story of how underdogs like us can get ahead through slightly underhanded means, General. Generalized scheming, thievery, also maybe just a little bit of light racketeering.02:58Not sure what I mean. Do. Take it away, guys.03:22You they say crime doesn't pay sure does in our case, the real prize is food, which we figured out we're given in exchange for returning tourist trashy ass belongings. I Oh, nice work, but petty theft, that's just the beginning. There are underdogs out there with a whole host of special skills, and I've got a job in mind that calls for the best of the best. I'm building a crack team of devious animals drawn from all over the world, each one a hustler, each one a master of their own, unique con experts. When working alone, you. Them, put them all together, and I've got the lineup. I need to pull off the perfect heist. First up, we need someone who knows how to go undercover. I cover, deep undercover.05:32But there's no one here,05:37or is there? I05:48You just been fooled by the Hairy Frog fish.05:58His flamboyant frills are my idea of subtle, but down here, they allow him to blend in perfectly while he goes hunting. The change of current has just blown his cover. That's bad news for a guy who relies on the element of surprise if you don't live life as a bottom feeder without having a few tricks up your sleeve, including walking I that's not bad for a fish, huh? But with this guy, I've learned to expect the unexpected. Now he just has to motor his boat to a new location, his next big target, this place looks pretty good, plenty of prey in these dark crevices. Reminds me that airport bathroom in Minneapolis now watch the master at work. A quick disguise change that takes two whole weeks. Two, what? Two full business weeks. Wow. Okay, so he's not the most efficient criminal on Earth, but he gave him a mere 336 hours, and he is transformed from a mid winter pale to a late summer, dark and deadly. That's perfect for blending in to his new hunting grounds. I Yes, and just like my internet browser, incognito mode, baby, wow. Now all he's got to do is set the bait and reel him in. What's the bait? Oh, you know, it's a bit of modified fin that looks like a worm. It's a little gamey, but it's also, you know, Chewy, impossible to digest. Oh, that poor unsuspecting fish. He will be missed, gone in a few thousandths of a second. And that was just the appetizer.09:00There's the main course and there's dessert, and besides a little indigestion, he's the perfect hidden hit man, and a must for my lineup.09:34Sadly, with my international notoriety, I have no hope of going incognito, but you do not get the job done with undercover work alone. We need Intel and lots of it. Most animals out there subscribe to the same tired D. Feel we all do. You work hard, you try your best, follow the rules, and you'll be rewarded. Well, we hustlers have a word for animals who fall for those instructions, suckers, marks, targets, morons. I these warblers are living the All American dream, teen, teeny, tiny, white picket fences working day in and day out to put food on the table so their 2.5 kids can grow big and strong. So10:40deeply resentful10:45of their parents and all their hard work. Yes, those little won't understand until they have their own kids, but one of their little ones is turning out to be much bigger than the others you dollars to understand why that is, we need to rewind the tape a little. For weeks, these hard working warblers have been under surveillance by a master of the secret sting operation, That's right, the cowbird11:41she's been secretly staking out the nest, keeping track of the number of eggs as they're laid.11:49And then all the Warblers go off warbling, or whatever it is that warblers do all day. The cowbird comes by to drop off a very special package. If she's caught, her plan will be ruined. But my colleague has an unusual talent, perfect for an aviary infiltrator. She can lay an egg in under seven seconds. The boom Special Delivery suckers, this inexplicably giant extra egg might seem pretty obvious, but these warblers are dumb as a bag of bricks. How do you still exist? Sorry to these literal bird brains. It checks out, but don't go thinking that this is a one off. No, no, no, no. This is just a tiny part of a whole empire espionage. Over one season, the cowbird gathers data on multiple nests, memorizing their locations and monitoring their status, ready to hit each nest with an extra egg when it maximizes her own chicks chances. And she's got no fancy mainframe computer. Mind you, the most impressive part is all that Intel is safely stored in her high powered, pistachio sized brain. By the end of the season, this feathered little egg dispenser can have laid up to 50 stealthy eggs in unsuspecting nests. Now that's a hustle. The warblers, they never appear to catch on to the reason that one of their babies is so oversized, they feed him and raise him along with their own brood. I And by outsourcing the work, the cowbird produces far more chicks than she could on her own. As parenting goes, it's a master stroke. And as an example of reconnaissance, it's just genius, and the reason that she's the one I trust to be the eyes and ears of my operation, so I Have my master of disguise and surveillance specialist. But what about when we need equipment? Well, when it comes to making something out of nothing, turns out I know just the guy. I just need to pry him away from the ladies. Welcome to Wales. It. Don't call it England, beautiful country and allegedly great place to go into witness protection. You they call my next associate, the spider, because he's well, he's a he's a spider. With this one, what you see is rarely what you get, but charm like this can entangle anyone he's out doing what he does Best, searching for a lady spider willing to mate. I luckily for him, some females want to be found, and they leave a trail of silk for him to follow. Been there. I16:23But if something seems too easy, it's usually because there's a catch.16:40Yes, a trail of dead bodies is a bit of a red flag. This is the female. She's a man eater. Literally eats them. The last five guys, well, let's just say they got more than they bargained for.17:09So our spider friend is gonna need a plan, and he's thinking the perfect gift might do the trick. The perfect gift obviously being the corpse of a fly, but his skills don't extend to web building to catch food and catching flies On foot is really hard work. He's17:42got to get creative and use his special set of skills, counterfeiting. And what could he offer in place of a juicy fly? Flowers. That's what my man flowers expertly dressed up in silk to look like the real thing. Flowers are not as popular in the spider verse as they are in the human world, but as long as she doesn't notice until he's gone. My old friend might just get away with it. Understandably, he's a bit nervous. After all, it's a first date with a serial killer. We've all been there. Trick is to get out of the car as quickly as he can time to present the Spider Woman with his generous package. Careful now, she seems to be taking the bait. And if you don't want to know what spider sex looks like, look away now, even though you won't, I know I'm not. I'm never looking away. That's hot, but mostly weird. You're still looking, aren't you? Me too. Can't stop. Oh, so so gross, but so beautiful, so majestic and mostly gross. So he got away with it this time. But I did say he's got an insatiable appetite for the ladies and he never did learn to quit when he was ahead. He keeps on wrapping flowers and keeps on fooling females until he starts to get complacent. Wrapping up any old trash. And as all forgers know, when your handiwork starts to get sloppy, that's the day consequence comes knocking at the door. That's right, that's the day you get nailed. Rip spider. You died doing what you love. I guess this is one job that I'll be pulling off without you. You so I find myself with a vacancy in my lineup. I'm thinking, maybe it's time for an infiltrator, someone, someone comfortable being behind enemy lines. Trouble is there's always that one character that takes the acting way too far and goes 110% full method and I love working with method actors when your process has to become my process, that's Teamwork.21:17These fancy, feathered show offs are male roughs. I21:20once21:27a year, 1000s of these birds fly all the way here from Africa for what I believe the Nordics call a super friendly, good time sex party, a the males are joined by less extravagant looking females. Among them is my contact, Philippa. She and the other ladies are met with a dance extravaganza that involves more feathers than a cabaret and a chicken coop.22:21He see you later. But22:25what usually happens when a bunch of egomaniacs face off in a high stakes dance contest? Yeah, it descends into a little slap fight. You I keep going, it doesn't look stupid. The males, they're so busy scrapping and posing that most of them forget they're even here to mate at all, which must be a little frustrating for the females who have flown 4000 miles to not get any action, but that's when Philippa steps up. While the males are busy fighting each other, she sneaks in and mates with the females. Yes, you heard me. Plot twist, big one, Philippa is actually Phil you. This method acting genius is one of the 1% of the male rough population that has female plumage. This way, he avoids the brawling and gets close enough to the ladies to make sweet, sweet, feathery love. And when it comes to staying in character, Phil is nothing short of a professional, even letting the other males mate with him to maintain the disguise That's commitment, textbook infiltration. And thus I have come 180 on method acting. There it is. That's why you do it. That's why you commit24:52by the time the other males figure out they've been played, he's out of there. He. Leaving them nothing to do but carry on fight dancing.25:09Hey guys, you can stop now. The ladies are all gone. Actually keep going. This is the one. This is the one that's gonna solve it.25:22You no matter how stacked your lineup is, when pulling off a heist, you never know when you might hit a snag. That's why every team needs someone with a cool head and the smarts to figure their way out of a tight spot. They don't make them any more cunning than they do. One of my guys is about to demonstrate exactly how you come out swinging when your back is against the wall, because he's about to come out come up against her an assassin bug and take it from me. She didn't get that name by helping old ladies across the road. I She's searching the forest for her next victim, and is homing in on my little friend, the Mad Hatter pillar, a name earned by sporting some of mother nature's most unusual head apparel. But unfortunately for him, he's about to enter the most vulnerable stage of his life cycle. After gorging himself on leaves, he needs to shed his skin, which has become too tight for his body. Think of it like trying to wrestle your way out of a sleeping bag that's two sizes too small, or early, 2000s skinny jeans while wearing a Halloween mask with a unicorn horn on your head. Not saying that, I've done that, but a lot of things happened in the early 2000s that you carried over right into 2019 like skinny jeans. And you just think, wow, I should have, why didn't someone say something? I've been married, and you could have, you know,27:22I know? Oh,27:30no, the assassin bug is closing in27:39as he finally leaves his old skin behind. He holds onto one bit the head, because it turns out his pointy headgear is not just a fun hat, it's four stories of previous head skin, all stacked on top of the other and his secret weapon in the fight against would be assassins when it comes to carrying out all the murdering the assassin bug's evil looking, pointy mouthpart is capable of stabbing, liquefying and sucking up brains all in one neat, pointy package, but only if you know which head is the real one. She's utterly bamboozled by the Hatter pillars, four story Head hat and doesn't know where to strike. In her confusion, she targets the fake heads, harmless to the caterpillar, Who then uses his head half as a weapon. The blow by blow the Hatter pillar battles the assassin bug to the edge of the leaf and well, so long as. The Hatter pillar is a must on the crew. And as I always say, don't bring a knife to a head fight. I never say that, but I did that just now, alluding to the fact that I do say it often, but I don't you. So I've got almost every underdog I need to pull off the perfect crime. There's just one critical thing left. Every team needs someone to take the fall. I30:43and this family knows all about that the jackals, an extra mouth to feed, has put pressure on these guys to deliver the goods.31:00Trouble is, everything they might Hunt is either too big, too fast, or too much of a psycho. Oh, you know who you are. Barry, remember that time in Baton Rouge? Yeah, you do. And frankly, when you've eaten termites once, it's one time too many,31:32but other animals are managing to catch food. I31:46maybe steal something you31:57do not want to steal from this guy, though, unless you're prepared to deal with the Fallout,32:16some of the team approach from the front. I32:24But while the lion's eyes are on them, the real hero sneaks around back. His job is to distract the big guy, and if32:39he wants to come out alive, he'll have to get it just right. Knock, knock, bufa, he has to run for his life, but he draws the lion off for just long enough. You the rest of the pack can make off with the goods back to the den to vomit up the spoils for their hungry child. Get it all out. Hold his hair back. There you go. You33:26and as for this legend, he took the heat, and this time he survived. So there you have it, my little black book of associates, all masters of deception and altogether everyone I need to pull off the big one. But33:47we're not done yet. There's something else you need to know about me. The33:55reason I get to be the brains of this whole operation. You know that part of the movie where you realize there's slightly more to a crying caper than meets the eye? That's this art. So let's take another look at my Bali operation. My light fingered monkey cousins, they'd be fantastic at stealing the small stuff. And look, while they're busy doing that, I figured out the thing humans value above all else in the dough. They're willing to trade fruit for their glasses and hats, right? So I figured they'd give a whole lot more for the tiny glass boxes that hold their souls. You know what? I was, right? I. Lot better. It may not be much to you, but around here, an egg is an upgrade on a mango. I've run the numbers and it's 16.25 times better for protein. But forget technicalities. All you need to know is it's a stroke of genius carried out by yours truly, the mastermind, always one step ahead. At least I'm working on my evil laugh.35:40News, just in of an audacious heist police are calling the crime of the century. Forensics say they are mystified by traces of fur, feathers and what looks to be a tiny sleeping bag found at the scene. Meanwhile, detectives say they are searching for a Am I reading this right? A fish, some birds, a jackal, a caterpillar and a monkey thought to be the ringleader of the operation all remain at large.36:13I love a heist movie.36:16This one's giving me Rat Pack vibes. You
Hello there. I'm Ryan Reynolds, yeah. Now, Ryan Reynolds, I'm a film actor. Occasionally I dabble in television and other industries. I'm also a father, but I'm ready to move on from all of that crap. So what's next? Wildlife, that's what. Nope, not these blowhards. I don't need my help. I'm here for these guys, nature's bench warmers. I'm talking Grade A freaks in their freaking, bizarre, weird, freak show lives. Get ready for the Underdogs.00:51These guys are the grossest, weirdest, the most unlikely stars in the great movie of life beyond01:03us now it's their time to shine. Wherever there is blatant mischief, wherever there is abject cowardice, wherever there is unbearable sexual tension, that's where you'll find the underdogs. You tell them, great day.01:35I'm Ryan Reynolds, and I endorse these beards.02:01Wow, the miracle of birth. The sound design is a bit much Oof. Can't imagine what the closed captioning would be on this for the youngster. This is the start of a life of limitless possibility, and for the parent, the formation of a bond more powerful than any force on Wait, where's she going? Nana, where's she going? Don't worry, she's coming back. I'm pretty sure I have no she's probably not coming back. But I'm hopeful. I'm not hopeful. But before you judge, being a parent is super hard, suddenly you're responsible for a tiny, helpless life form. And it's frankly terrifying. If you're searching for a guide on how to do it right, look no further than Mother Nature's underdogs, because no matter how terrible you are, you can't be as bad as them. The first challenge for parents is finding a suitable nursery. Denise barnacle geese are willing to travel a long way to find the perfect spot. As a new parent, people always tell you to follow your instincts an instinct has led these guys here to Greenland. Sure, it's a barren land of rocks, ice and darkness, but geese have been coming here to raise kids for 1000s of years. It worked for their parents, so Larry and Joan are gonna give it a go.04:05Larry has found them an awesome nest site, just out of reach of predators and the view. Well, that's to die for. There's really just one tiny thing, minuscule. Really. Larry's nest, where his tiny, flightless chicks will be born,04:36is approximately 800 feet off the ground. Oh, and there's one other thing, it's hardly worth mentioning. There is a risk of the occasional avalanche, flood combo. It's a fly. A lunch, if you will. At this point, some parents might question their choice of home, but not these guys, they've laid their four precious eggs right on top of this razor, sharp precipice. Larry classic, first time parent, that instinct told him to find the highest spot for his nest, an instinct can never be wrong,05:34right, don't mess with Mr. In between.05:40So your nursery is prepared and the baby will soon be here. It's a great time to start your search for suitable child care. You just got to be careful who you choose to babysit. Welcome to Penang, Malaysia. These reprobates are a troop of dusty Landers. They left the jungles behind and moved into the city. But you know what they say, you can take an animal out of the wild, but you can't take the wild out of the animal. But not everybody's misbehaving this first time, mother has put aside her days of hedonism to focus on her newborn. Oh, and before you ask she did not get overly friendly with an orangutan. All baby Langers are orange for the first few months. Now, the time has come to introduce her precious infant to the rest of the family that there's one thing that these Guys like more than all out anarchy.07:13It's babies you07:23crazy. I'm crazy. You know the07:30feeling when all your relatives want to come around and hold the baby with their unwashed, germy hands? Well, if you think you got it bad, just be grateful you're not a Langer, because when I say they love babies, I mean they really love babies, like obsessed. Just Baby, baby, baby all the time Baby Baby grabbing maniacs. They get a whiff of that new baby smell. Mom's got zero chance of keeping a hold of them. They know to support the head right while most parents step in when an irresponsible hoard of relatives starts manhandling their newborn, this mom is having something of an epiphany, learning a lesson. Every new parent must. It's okay to take a little time for yourself. I'm talking to me right now, not you, even when that means passing your precious little nugget off to grandma. Hey, Grammy, she may be a little much, and thinks she knows best all the time. But free childcare is, in fact, free childcare. So whatever gets mom a little me time right. What could possibly go wrong? Well, Grandma passes him to, I think that's Uncle Mike. Didn't know he's out on parole, and Uncle Mike passes him to whoever that is. Doesn't seem totally trustworthy, probably on a watch list, but all mom sees is the chance for some sweet, sweet freedom, but then whoever that is crosses a line. When I say crosses a line, I mean literally carries the baby across a high voltage power line. You. I mean, what the was natural selection doing all day, right? And mom decides that's enough family bonding for today and goes to get her baby back.10:22I for Langers, it takes a village to raise kids, but every parent has their limit.10:42The boundaries, Uncle Mike boundaries, so you've got the nursery and the childcare sorted, that's great. The kids are expensive, so unless you've got a very old, very rich relative about to kick the bucket, you're gonna need a plan on how to pay for it all in11:14order to manage your home efficiently. Many a housewife keeps track of the family's money in Planet spending and saving.11:22You mean a budget11:25sounds impressive.11:30You know who is excellent at balancing the books? Harvest mice. You're not my first guess, either, not my 50th Mrs. Tickle. Mouse here has got eight babies hidden away in her cozy nest of grass, and she knows exactly how much she needs to gather to make sure they're warm and well fed.11:55Oh, geez,11:58National Geographic, you little vixen. Let's get that well, don't worry, she's fine. She's gonna get up any second now. You see, she's moving. Oh, I get it. It was a misdirect rip. Meet the real experts at accounting, Mr. And Mrs. Bearing beetle, plus their entourage of hitchhiking mites who aren't in this section but are too gross not to acknowledge. Right now, I'm afraid to say that they're doing the no pants dance on Mrs. Tickle now wait National Geographic, you guys devoted a whole channel to mother nature, and it's just absolutely disgusting. And like nature's nastiest undertakers, having made sweet sweet love on the corpse, they then bury it because gross. And why do they do this? Because the body of Mrs. T will provide all the resources their growing family needs to support itself if they budge it properly, Mrs. Beetle lays the exact number of eggs that they think the corpse can sustain, and three days later, they hatch into these adorable bundles of joy and mom and dad get to work feeding them by regurgitating Miss Mrs. Tickle mouse directly into13:52into their mouths. I can do this.13:56I can do this. I can do this. I'm a big boy. Those little heads up would have been nice. I don't really see any terrible parenting here. I see attentive parents, plenty of food, lots of skin to skin contact. You know, this is textbook stuff. I mean, you don't throw rocks from glass houses. But there's a problem. These little tykes have gotten greedy. There's only so much of Mrs. Tickle mouse's fetid corpse being masticated and then regurgitated into your child's welcoming mouth to go around. Luckily, mom and dad have a way to get the budget back on track, and I'm afraid to say,14:42well, it's eating their own children, starting with the greedy ones, which weirdly doesn't bother me that much. I don't know why that one,14:58if it seems extreme, that's because it. Well, it's it is it's extreme, but with one less mouth to feed, the other kids have a better chance at survival, and their parents might even be able to afford college.15:19Does it count as good parenting? I'll let you decide.15:32So how's Larry facing up to the prospect of first time fatherhood? It's literally crapping himself. It's happened to many a new father. Fortunately, Joan is a natural. She's been sitting on their clutch of four eggs for 10 days now, lovingly churning them every hour, keeping them warm and safe, despite Larry's questionable real estate decision, I but Joan is hungry, so while she pops out to feed, Larry is in charge. Larry, whom she trusts implicitly. I mean, how hard could it be? All he has to do is guard the eggs for a couple of minutes while Jonah's away. You're doing great, Larry,16:33you got this.16:36You stick with it. And yep, he's gone. I16:44this is probably not16:53good. Larry.16:59Larry, come back. Yes, yes. Oh, come on, Larry, no, you dumb bag. Oh, scrambled heads. What an idiot. I thought the whole point of this insane location was to protect them from predators.17:26Unfortunately for Joan and my mom, in real life, geese made for life, so she's stuck with17:39him, and so are his chicks. Welcome to the world, Bill guys, Mom and Dad, are gonna take care of you, love you, feed you, introduce you to the world. Well, that was wildly irresponsible. And wherever that chick is, it's of no doubt, thriving. No one's defending accidentally kicking your kid off a cliff. But the stats say a 50% survival rate that's is pretty decent for a barnacle goose. I mean, if Larry were a human, I mean, he'd be brought in jail, of course. Let's just hope he doesn't make any more mistakes.18:34Don't put off weaning just because it's messy. The sooner you start, the less trouble you'll18:39have. The next major milestone a parent faces is weaning. But while some of us spend hours prepping nutritious offerings perfect for delicate little tummies, some parents have other ideas. The this is Kimmy. She has one of the smallest brains relative to size of any mammal. It's the size of an underdeveloped walnut. But that's okay. That's okay, because most of the time she only has to do three things, eat leaves, digest them, and sleep for 22 hours a day. That is aspirational, by the way, but due to a wild, tequila soaked night and a while back, I'm kidding, koalas don't drink tequila, I think, but it would explain the rampant STDs. Kimmy now has another thing to do, take care of this little baby walnut brain, and after a few months in the pouch, it's time for his first. Solid meal.20:03If you go down in the woods today, you're sure of a big surprise. If you go down in the woods today, you better go in disguise. But Kimmy, she20:12doesn't bother with spoon feeding or finger food. She's been preparing something very special for baby's first meal. And if you thought regurgitated Mrs. Tickle mouse was bad, just wait.20:35Junior has to put his head down and prepare to eat. Yep, that is okay, that's poop.20:48Apparently, that's a bit graphic for National Geographic, but I'm told there's a method to this madness. Eucalyptus leaves are toxic and would kill her little Junior big time. But mommy's little gift has a secret ingredient. Kenny's baby food actually contains a special bacteria that can digest the toxins that will give Junior the best start in life. Just maybe don't try it at home. Human baby food may also look like poop, but I assure you it's not. I mean, I mean it's it will be turned into poop, but no, you know, you don't. So diapers are for you.21:49You can see how completely we depend on others when we're very small. Of course, as we grow older, most of us begin to strike out for ourselves. We begin to develop something called self reliance.22:06So there comes a time when kids must learn to go it alone, and equipping them with the life skills they need is a tall order for any parent. So this Meerkat mom of 20, she doesn't bother because the beauty of having so many kids is that the siblings can teach each other the ropes, right? My brothers were amazing with rope. Oh, he knew all kinds of knots. Anyway, yep, they seem perfectly well adjusted. Next to go through mom's school of hard knocks is four week old, Olin, and he's about to get the shock of his life. For the past month, Mom has been nurturing him and taking care of his every need. But it's time to confront reality, Junior, you're a man now. Mom's ripping off the band aid and leaving his education to his brothers and sisters, which I can tell you from personal experience. Well, that's a terrible idea. Lesson One, choosing the right friends, Olin needs to learn to pick out the right kind of pals to play with.23:40Oh, this guy looks friendly. Friendly. Nope, not Barry. Don't, no, no, don't mess with that guy. It's all going great until23:58his older brother does what older brothers do. Gets you into major trouble.24:13Is mom gonna offer any guidance at this point? No,24:22I fortunately, they soon realize this is not someone that you want to play tag with. It's just another thrilling and slightly traumatic adventure with your brother that mom will never, ever hear about. Let's call that A, B plus lesson two, finding food. I The basic technique for this is digging for grubs. I've seen Lion King, but if you thought Olin's brother was bad, his sister, James. Is about to introduce him to a face full of scorpion. She'll probably laugh about it with her friends later. When you sit in therapy, you know, reenacting the whole thing with crude sock puppets, surely mom's gotta step in now. There's no way that she's gonna let Okay, not a chance. I guess pain is, you know, it's part of the learning process. Bravo. Olin, this report card might just make it the fridge. Lesson three, Stranger danger. If there's one thing that meerkats need to learn above all else, it's looking out for danger, especially from above.25:56All the other kids head back to the den, but Olin hasn't realized the lunch break is over. The only one left is mom. Will she finally step in now? I26:15mean, there are literally so many heroic options available here. You fight the hawk, you can run to his rescue, throw yourself in the path of danger. Well, that's it. That was definitely the bare minimum. Okay, it's effective, but, you know, a little phoned in. I'm being honest, at least Olin ran away. In the end, he still alive. So I guess we can call it a pass, a little coward, and for all those helicopter parents out there learn from the underdogs that a healthy disinterest a dash of questionable sibling oversight, and your kids learn self sufficiency fast. Okay, we're gonna check back in on Larry, barnacle goose in the doghouse Larry's two surviving babies, which is a disturbing sentence to say. They're just a day and a half old. So Larry and Joan, they're going to stay right where they are. Nope, nope, no, they're leaving.27:36They're leaving. They're definitely they're gone easy if you have fully grown wings, but the chicks have to find a different way of getting to ground level.27:52There's just one small problem, the 800 foot drop, no flight feathers equals high likelihood of plummeting to your death, starting as a baby chick and ending as a blood soaked rock. Or does it?28:22Let's go out to the edge of the cliff. Whoops, there he goes.28:28For most of us, the fall would be a bad thing, but for these geese, that's a calculated risk. Science has worked out chicks have to jump between 36 and 72 hours old any earlier, they don't have enough stuff to slow their fall any later, and their bones are too hard and brittle to survive the impact. Okay, science over to you. Hope you know what you're doing. Oh no, well that, oh, that was brutal. No, he does seem to be okay. Oh, yikes. You know, 25% is nothing to be ashamed of. Okay, little guy, it's all you. You got this. Just because your siblings met a horrible, graphic demise doesn't mean that you're doomed too, from what I know about BASE jumping, which is, you know, almost nothing, this is good. I think he's got a real shot here, left a bit left, left, left a bit left, a bit left, a bit left. Okay, hold that, hold that, hold that, hold that, hold. Not ideal. Shake it off. Shake it off. No, no, no, no. That's yeah, you gotta stick that landing. Nope, that's hard to watch. Okay, we're on the snow and we're still going. I still going and still going? Is he even alive? I30:40These shows are expensive, so we'll do them all in the silence later.31:02Well, look, he did, in fact, survive. No thanks to Father of the Year over there. Don't worry, you'll grow to have a more nuanced and advanced sense of resentment in many years to come. I'm not going to defend Larry's parenting choices. He's a reprehensible father, but frankly, his last chick is alive, not because of him, but you know, despite him, at least it still has its parents, which is more than we can say for some so we're back to where we started. Was the parent who wins the prize for the least effort? Would there surprise for that? Oh, of course, that's not counting all of the absentee fathers. The Thompson's Gazelle heading out, who knows where, as soon as her tiny offspring exited her birth canal. Well now the moment of reckoning has come, the moment when her innocent little calf will have to face the consequences of mom's lazy ass approach to motherhood. There are so many ways it could be eaten. Did you chase down and disemboweled, shredded to ribbons? You don't even want to know what she'd do to him, or worse, be ruthlessly dismembered by jackals. To those of you still traumatized by Bambi, I am sorry. Me and my team are working relentlessly to find the hunter who shot bambis Mom and bring him to justice. You.33:04Oh, the slow motion. No, no, no, no, no, the sad dramatic music. I think Junior's about to meet bambi's Mom. I33:25Oh, but wait, who's this? You see, as we learn from Mrs. Tickle mouse's sad demise, Mother Nature is nothing if not a master of the misdirect. It's true that mom here wandered off, left her newborn baby alone, surrounded by serial baby eaters, which is weirdly the name of my first band, but it's because she didn't want to draw attention to him. Truth is, she was always watching from afar. So when the jackals do find the baby, she can go from lazy ass to kick ass in 0.3 seconds. Because that's the thing about parents. We're not always perfect. We make mistakes. Sometimes we seem downright terrible. But at the end of the day, when it really matters, we've got this, and she's gone again. Are you kidding me? I'm not mad. No. Just disappointed. Oh, I sound like my mother. Hey downtown.35:15One of the most interesting of all mother animals is the opossum, who carries her liver of babies with her wherever she35:22goes, she needs healthy boundaries.35:24Sometimes one or two do fall off, but they usually find their way back to Mother and the other babies,35:30not if you run faster than they can.35:32Sometimes the opossum hangs by her tail, probably trying to shake a few off, but soon they all settle down for a quiet night. Oh,35:41finally, peace, you.- 1 -00Transcribed by https://otter.ai