SHARK HUNTERS---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Sharks, for many there's

no greater fear. The thought of getting attacked by one of these apex predators is the stuff of nightmares and

of movie scripts

since Jaws premiered 50 years ago, Hollywood has known sharks inspire a unique kind of terror. I've been afraid of sharks since I was a kid, and now I'm preparing to swim with them.

But the real danger

is what the world might look like without them. The global shark and Ray population has decreased by an estimated 70% over the past 50 years in the fin trade of the species that scientists have been able to study, more than two thirds are at risk of extinction. Most sharks are being caught for shark fin soup, a traditional Chinese dish that symbolizes wealth and status. The trafficking of shark fins is worth hundreds of millions of dollars per year, enough money to draw the attention of organized crime groups with tentacles that stretch from China to Mexico's Cartel Land and all the way back to the United States. This is a journey to find out how and why so many sharks are being

killed, and it begins with a leap of faith. You

this area off the coast of Florida is known as a hotspot for sharks, and just moments after I hit the water, one approaches

an eight foot Lemon shark so close I can touch it. Lemon sharks are vulnerable to extinction. Their number has been cut in half, if not more over the last 50 years.

My dive partner, Dr Katherine McDonald, is a renowned marine biologist and shark researcher. You

foreign experts say it's an unsustainable decline, and especially alarming because the loss of sharks could trigger a domino effects throughout the food chain, with overpopulation of smaller fish leading to the collapse of coral reefs and major parts of the ocean's ecosystem in 2022 alarmed by the downward spiral of sharks, the US government made it illegal to possess, sell or transport nearly any type of 
shark fin with enormous profits at stake. I suspect the fin trade in the US has not entirely disappeared. You

in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn, I'm working with a team of undercover journalists who are investigating the black market for shark fins in the US in

Our party has requested VIP banquet at a cost of $1,000 per person. There's no telling if the restaurant will actually serve shark but money has a way of opening doors. Shark fin soup originated around 1000 years ago as a delicacy eaten by China's elite, but the country's economic rise in the 1980s and 90s gave birth to a boom in demand. Despite a steep price tag, the soup became popular at formal events like weddings and banquets.

It's Sunday afternoon, and the restaurant is packed. Not a single empty table. We're led to a small private room in the back, in keeping with the cover story, I'm speaking Spanish, hoping to create as little suspicion as possible.

After an appetizer of chicken feet, a big soupy bowl arrives at the table, you

if this truly is shark fin soup, then the noodles being served are not noodles at all. They are thin fibers of cartilage processed from Shark fins the

if they're real. It's shocking That Finns are still being sold and served in America two years after the ban. And if this trade is still happening, I want to know where these Finns might be coming from, how they're getting into the country, and who's profiting. The waiter said the sharks are coming from south of the border. So that's where I'm headed, to Mazatlan, the biggest fishing port on the west coast of Mexico, where fishermen like Herman ply their trade in.

At the end of summer, when shark fishing season begins in this region, Herman, his brother and his uncle navigate the open seas in this small panga boat in

You sharks tend to grow slowly. Some species, like the Great White can't reproduce until they're about 30 years old, which is why it's so hard for them to bounce back from overfishing in Mexico, regulations dictate that sharks can only be caught in season, and highly protected species, shark or otherwise,

must be released if caught.

But experts say it's nearly impossible to police these laws and all signs point to illegal overfishing combined. Legal and illegal fishing have killed so many sharks that entire populations near the coast have been decimated. Fishermen like Herman now have to travel five hours from land to try their luck in the open waters of the Pacific in

it's a risky Business, financially and physically. It's

they check hook after hook to see how many sharks have taken the bait on

many sharks, when caught on long fishing lines for extended periods, suffocate or die from stress. That means, while endangered species must be released if caught, many are dead before they can even be hauled in. German is operating legally. Catching these sharks helps him sustain his family. But knowing how shark populations are crashing, it's hard to watch as Shark after shark is hauled out of the water in

recent reports reveal Mexican cartels muscling their way into the fishing industry, taking over fleets of boats, factories and even fishing cooperatives, and with complete disregard for rules conservation quotas and sustainable practices, but in Mexico, answering questions about the cartel can get you killed in

Ultimately it'll be cartilage like this that's processed into noodles for shark fin soup, like the dish that was served in New York.

While Herman can sell shark meat for $2 a pound, he can sell fins for 10 times that amount. This explains the brutal allure of Finn Inc, cutting the fins off sharks and dumping their bodies at sea. Around the world, environmentalists have pushed legislation to end the practice, and in many countries like Mexico, Shark fishermen are required to bring the entire Animal to shore.

The Finns will stay with irmaan until a middleman he knows comes to buy them in

it's been eight years since Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, the leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, was extradited to the United States. In his absence, the cartel split into factions that have maintained an uneasy peace.

But just before I arrived in Mexico, another cartel boss, el mayo, was arrested, setting off waves of killings among Sinaloa

factions.

The US State Department has now issued a do not travel warning for this region. And the closer we get to Sinaloa, capital, kuliakan, the more dangerous it becomes. But as luck would have it, the shark fin broker we made contact with is located north of kuliakan, meaning we'll have to hug the coast and do whatever we can to avoid the cartel war. You

the Don Beto is the oldest of four Brothers who make their living As shark fin brokers. You

that would mean Don Beto collection of fins is worth roughly $2 million in China, but first it has to get there. You.

It's the same type of shark I swam with in Florida. You

John BETOs words echo beliefs that often exist in communities where animal conservation affects livelihoods.

These days. Don Beto says his most pressing problem is with cites the international group that regulates the trade of endangered animals to ship fins overseas. He needs permits, but these permits have become difficult to obtain with exports to Asia bottlenecked. Don Beto says some people have begun buying his fins with an eye to smuggling them over the border into the United States. You

It seems this is the point in the supply chain where what is largely illegal trade becomes criminal. The

Don Beto won't connect us to his buyers, so I'm headed to the Yucatan city of Merida, where I've been tipped off about a smuggling operation.

At first glance, this quiet colonial city seems a strange base of operations for shark trafficking, but coastal access, good infrastructure and relative obscurity could be an attractive combination for criminal groups in

we've hooked up with some other members of the same undercover team I worked with in New York. They've spent the past four months in Merida looking into a Chinese smuggling operation. I because

of their ongoing investigative work, we're obscuring their identities in

posing as would be investors, we've come to the house of a man these undercover journalists have identified as a player in Meredith's fin trade in true

to form, He's cooking up shark fin soup on the stove.

Nobody I've met in Max. he's cooking up shark fin soup on the stove. ve these fins have been dried and cuts, just like those I signed on, Beto storage. You This is what we've been waiting for, an opening to learn how Finns are smuggled North you he tells us his ability to transport fins is limited, but he knows of other groups able to move vast quantities in Mexico, it's a safe bet that anyone able to move contraband inside shipping containers to the US is also going to have connections to a cartel. I know from many years of reporting on Mexican criminal groups that smuggling routes are rarely confined to just drugs or weapons. Cartels are always looking for new revenue streams, and in recent years, they've turned their attention to the ocean. In early 2024 Minerva, Perez Castro, the head of Mexico's largest fishing trade group, accused the cartels of muscling their way into all aspects of the industry, and in July of that year, she followed up with this press conference denouncing illegal fishing in but in Mexico, there are few things more dangerous than exposing the inner workings of a cartel. Within hours, she was assassinated. Her car riddled with 30 bullets. Her death has had a chilling effect here, reminding everyone from fishermen to industry leaders that there is a price to pay for speaking out against criminal groups. Has dared to connect cartels to the shark fin trade, but if all roads lead to the cartel, it's time to talk with someone directly involved.

I've reported extensively from Sinaloa in the past, and through my contacts, I've been able to connect with a high level operative.

The problem

he's demanding we meet in the capital kuliakan, the one place we've Been trying to avoid. You.

Far from it. These streets are now ground zero For cartel warfare in Mexico, the

making things even more volatile, local sicarios are on the lookout for state police and government Special Forces who have now entered The city with orders to hunt down cartel members the

we're met by three heavily armed men who Bring us inside A safe house. You

I've held back on one difficult Question, but it's now or never.

He doesn't like my question,

and neither does the guy behind him who Just cocked his weapon. You

I know from my Mexico trip that fins are being shipped to the US aboard container ships, and I know from the staff at the restaurant in New York that they buy their fins in Los Angeles. So the next logical stop is here.

The US Fish and Wildlife Service faces a daunting task, monitoring millions of shipments passing through the Port of Los Angeles each year, any of which could conceal illegal wildlife products. Today is training day for Braxton and his handler, wildlife Inspector Ray Hernandez you,

Denise larason oversees operations for fish and wildlife here. Her team intercepts all kinds of shark products, including the type of fins Don Beto said he supplies to smugglers you.

I because shipping routes from Central America to Asia often run through us ports Fish and Wildlife make valiant efforts to catch smugglers and curb the trade from the supply side, but many conservationists agree that saving sharks also requires reducing demand, and that means changing the habits of consumers,

public awareness campaigns and vegetarian alternatives to shark fin noodles have made an impact on consumption among young people in China, but throughout Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and mainland China, which are collectively responsible for 90% of global shark fin imports, it is still Legal to order shark fin soup in restaurants and back in the US where it's not legal, the dish I was served would suggest that a black market is in full swing. That's if it was actually shark fin the

DR Damian Chapman is an acclaimed shark expert whose team has developed the genetic tools to identify the species of shark from tissue samples the

the noodles from the restaurant come not from one but from two types of shark, a silky shark, a species classified as vulnerable, and a scalloped hammerhead, which is critically endangered, Just one step away from extinction in The wild you

so that's the challenge in all black markets, creating job opportunities and new revenue streams that offer those involved a way out. In any given year, the odds of a person being killed by a shark are less than one in a billion, incredibly rare, but the odds that our oceans and fisheries will be decimated if sharks disappear are virtually certain you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai


BRIDES-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In cultures around the world, weddings are revered. They're the moment when lives and families intertwine in but

they are places where young brides face a much darker fate, places where an underground trade in child brides can begin like this, with girls being pulled off the street, kicking and screaming, terrified of being taken away, imprisoned, sold and raped.

We've come to Vietnam to find out what's happening to the girls who are disappearing, and to expose the inner workings of a black market so sinister it seems ripped from the pages of The Handmaid's Tale in

the Sunday Market at Bucha in the north of Vietnam, near The Chinese border, is a kaleidoscope of food and goods you might not see anywhere else in the world.

They are brought to market each week by the region's ethnic minorities, chief among them, a group known as the humong but each week, there is Another group that competes for the attention of shoppers you

Juan Wong is the director of counter trafficking for an organization called Pacific links. Her team comes to the market to issue warnings and speak with the mothers of the disappeared The

this is a region scarred by the disappearance of young women, daughters and sisters who've been targeted by kidnappers, often near markets like this one, and smuggled over the Chinese border to be sold in.

It's impossible to get accurate statistics, but the numbers are in the 1000s. Luan knows because she also runs a safe house for young women who've escaped captivity in China and are trying to rebuild their lives. Kai's nightmare began when that friend asked her To travel near the border to buy medicine in

All these women were kidnapped and sold in China. Often they were invited out by a friend and then drugged in

the tactics the traffickers employ to get these Hmong girls across the border can be elaborate. Some are tricked with promises of jobs, and some are lured through romance scams. Other tactics are more brash, like the videos I saw of men grabbing girls in plain sight. In these cases, witnesses might not intervene, because the Hmong culture includes a courtship ritual in which a young man kidnaps a would be bride before the two families meet to discuss the marriage. But it's been reported that some traffickers are using this ritual as a cover for actual kidnappings, and by the time parents of the girls realize it, it's too late. You

the number of girls who've disappeared like this remains a mystery. The

Mimi Vu is an anti trafficking expert and a victim's advocate. You

there's a huge demand for brides in China, the unintended consequence of a policy launched way back in 1979 when officials became alarmed by the country's growing birth rate and sought to re engineer the population in

foreign families faced severe penalties if they gave birth to more than one child, and because sons in China have traditionally had a higher social status and are expected to care for their parents in old age, many couples chose to abort babies if they weren't boys, the practice peaked in the 2000s when an estimated 20% more boys than girls were born in China each year,

not in China, but Here, near Vietnam's northern border with China, the black market seems to have found a Ready supply.

This Huang region, located along the country's 800 mile border with China, is one of the most beautiful on Earth. But because it is so remote, there are few economic opportunities. The couple who have agreed to speak with me earn a meager wage weaving brooms from wild reeds. You

There are a lot of reasons why people just out of prison may not want to reveal their illegal activities to us, but in this case, I'm quite certain it's because law enforcement are In the room listening to Every word They Say You

I foreign journalists in Vietnam are closely watched, especially when reporting on sensitive issues such as the politics between China and Vietnam. I've been told I must be accompanied by a government minder and give authorities a list of all the people we plan on interviewing. If I break the rules, I risk being expelled from the country. I'm heading to meet with another former trafficker who did time in prison, A man named Min but Again, we've got company. I

for the next night, Min finally shows up you

You. It's another frustrating interview. Nobody knows anything, nobody's done anything, and nobody's seen anything. It seems to me that the authorities are going to great lengths to control the information we're getting.

But why

I'm in Lao Kai, right on the border between Vietnam and China.

There's a reason our hands are tied when it comes to China. In the West, most of us view Vietnam through the lens of war 50 years ago, but we never paid much attention to what happened after American forces pulled out in

in 1979 China invaded northern Vietnam, including here in Lao Kai, sending over 200,000 soldiers over the border, sparking a brief but bloody war until Chinese forces withdrew. The relationship remained tense, and the countries didn't sign a formal border pact until 1999 these days, Vietnam is wary of antagonizing the Chinese government, so I don't have great confidence in what local officials might reveal about the bride trade, but I'm hoping they can at least tell me More than I've learned from players in the underworld. You

Mr. Nguyen Tuong long is the director of the LAO Kai branch of Vietnam social vices prevention and combat agency. He's agreed to meet me here at the border, though I've been warned against asking questions about China's new fence or the involvement of Chinese organized crime groups in bride trafficking. I

by now we've both taken notice of the law enforcement agent filming us in

it's risky to ask certain questions, one step. Over the line, and we could get kicked out of the country. You

we have now hit a wall. The options are to play nice and accept this story as out of reach, or find a way to tunnel beneath it you

another day in northern Vietnam, another awkward attempt at filming. We followed one of the survivors from the shelter home to her village, and we ourselves were followed by the biggest entourage yet in

I've been reaching out to other journalists, thinking maybe we could find someone who's already reported on this Story and doesn't have the visibility that we do. I two

which is how I got connected with a man we'll call V A respected Asian journalist working on his own investigation the

you we've taken many precautions to safeguard V's identity.

I've had an annoying feeling since we arrived in Vietnam that lurking behind the story the government has allowed us to see is something far more disturbing, And now I'm hoping we can lift the veil. You

I hope that V and his team can run Their investigation without the interference of Vietnamese agents. But that doesn't mean we've given up on Trying to meet underworld figures on our own. You

Zhang. Zhang says it took the girls five years to make it back to Vietnam, but soon after returning, they alerted authorities who had him arrested and jailed for seven years. Today, he says it would be more difficult to traffic the girls because of the massive electrified fence that China built on the long border between the two countries, part of its effort to contain the movement of people during the COVID epidemic, but when I tested this theory with Mimi, she wasn't having it. You

a movement of products that these hidden cameras have sought to capture. Once again, we've taken elaborate precautions to meet with him in a safe location this time to review his footage, you

V spent eight days filming undercover in the Vietnamese city of Lao Kai, sometimes posing as a Chinese man seeking a bride, other times posing as an agent for buyers in.

As I wait for them to return, I've been thinking about my conversation with May, a survivor, who said she was kidnapped at 13 years old. You. woman who's allegedly trafficking, girls. in In total, V met with nine different bride agents on the be married. side, in theory, if a girl is matched with a Chinese man, her border into China, to be. will be paid, often with money that is desperately needed. And the girl will voluntarily cross the border. into China to be married. While this could provide the bride with a chance to find a husband in China and more economic opportunity, a lot can go wrong in foreign it's those brothels on the Chinese side that V's undercover team is now preparing to expose. Like most of the victims I met, May was drugged and trafficked to China as a young teenager. But while some of the others escaped quickly, May was not so lucky. She was raped by her captor and forced to give birth to two children. Then she spent years begging the family to allow her to visit her parents back in Vietnam, the Chinese family finally agreed to the visit, but insisted her children stay in China. They also had may sterilized so she wouldn't be tempted to start a new family elsewhere. Once in Vietnam, may faced an agonizing decision return to the Chinese family who'd purchased and exploited her, or remain in Vietnam and risk never seeing her children again in

in the end, she chose to stay in Vietnam without her children in

May's kidnappers stole her childhood, her children, and subjected her to trauma that will last a lifetime,

and now I want to know how many other Vietnamese women are facing similar horrors just over The border. I

foreign many trafficked women I met described being threatened with forced prostitution if they didn't agree to take a Chinese husband. This is a brothel that V says forces women into sex work. Here, the boss at the entrance grills V's investigator before letting him in even checking the brand of cigarettes he had in his pocket, likely to confirm if he's from the province. He claims this is access that as Westerners, we would have never been able to get

the price prepaid was 300 yuan, roughly 40 US dollars in.

At this point, Visa investigator tells The girl he wants to Leave the

you V says the police are often involved in the sex trafficking business, and that it's of no use to report what his team saw to local authorities. The only hope for helping these girls is to alert the government in Beijing, which he intends to do, even so he has little confidence they will take action in

there are various ways these girls wind up in China. Some are kidnapped. Some are lured by the promise of work or finding a wealthy husband, but you can bet that none of them had any intention of winding up here, exploited as sex workers. You

in 2021 the Chinese government announced a new initiative to crack down on human trafficking by focusing on international coordination and community outreach. But two years later, a report from the US State Department says China still isn't doing enough to stop the flow, and so with the lives of vulnerable young girls hanging in the balance, it seems the powers that be are more worried about saving face than Saving lives in

Transcribed by https://otter.ai


TRANQ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For more than 50 years, this country has been fighting the war on drugs, yet today we're facing the worst drug epidemic in US history, the opioid crisis

I've been covering this story for more than a decade. I've covered Oxycontin, I've covered heroin, I've covered fentanyl, but this is something new, something deadly.

It's a powerful cocktail of drugs that users call tranq dope, and I want to know where it's coming from. The this investigation takes me from one of the largest open air drug markets in America to the cartel labs of Sinaloa To uncover the next wave of the opioid crisis in

Kensington, Philadelphia, is on the front line of America's war on drugs. The DEA has called this neighborhood the largest open air drug market on the East Coast. The local police here are overwhelmed

there were more than 100,000 overdose deaths in America in 2022 and the majority involved fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50 times more powerful than heroin. The head of Homeland Security has called fentanyl the single greatest challenge we face as a country.

Arianna Ortiz grew up far from Kensington, surrounded by a loving middle class family in New York, but every day she worries that her older sister Melissa will die. Here you

you Melissa began experimenting with alcohol and prescription pain pills during her teenage years. That powerful opioid high, combined with Melissa's mental health struggles, led her to more dangerous drugs in.

Nick Melissa is one of two and a half million Americans who have fallen victim to opioid addiction, a crisis that began over two decades ago in the 1990s when Big Pharma gave mainstream America its first taste of the drug via legal prescription pain pills that were marketed as completely safe.

Experts call this the first wave of the opioid crisis, when the authorities finally caught on and shut down the pain clinics, the demand didn't disappear. It found a new supply heroin. This was the second wave. Four years ago, I documented a third wave showing how Mexico's cartels smuggle fentanyl, one of the strongest opioids available, onto America's streets and into the bodies of Users like Ariana sister in

you. Charlie Nolan is a former fentanyl user who now works for savage sisters, a local harm reduction organization that has helped 1000s of Kensington's addicts.

Charlie and his coworkers are seeing evidence that something's changed in the local fentanyl supply, making it even worse. What we're about to show you is extreme and upsetting, but it's critical to understand what's happening in Kensington.

These wounds are not caused by fentanyl alone, but a new chemical cocktail that's made from an animal tranquilizer called xylazine. And when that's mixed with fentanyl and sold on the streets, users refer to it as tranq dope.

Kensington is now ground zero for tranq dope and for these extreme wounds that the medical establishment is struggling to understand in

experts are calling the arrival of poly drug mixtures like tranq dope part of an even deadlier phase of the opioid epidemic, the fourth wave the

bill Bodnar is a former drug enforcement Special Agent who spent more than 30 years combating the spread of illegal narcotics throughout the US in

what I want to know is who's changing. The drug supply, who's mixing xylazine with fentanyl, and why? The answers are likely to be found over 2000 miles away, on the home turf of the world's biggest supplier of fentanyl, the Sinaloa Cartel,

but when I arrive, I discover something unprecedented is taking place here in

Miguel Angel Vega is a friend and fellow journalist. He's seen hundreds of murder victims while reporting on Mexico's drug wars, but these killings are different.

The two men who were killed here were allegedly cartel chemists among dozens of murdered fentanyl chemists whose bodies have been dumped on roadsides throughout the city the past few months. These bodies were accompanied by banners that began appearing in Culiacan and on local news that said in Sinaloa, the sale, manufacture or transport of fentanyl is strictly prohibited. You have been warned in

right? The Sinaloa cartel has made hundreds of millions of dollars flooding the United States with fentanyl. Now they seem to be violently pumping the brakes on this lucrative black market. But why you

so that's what we do.

But questions remain, why is the cartel killing its own chemists, and are these murders somehow connected to the tranq dope that's flooding America's streets tonight? Miguel has lined up someone who might have answers. You

you he tells me to call him Gabriel, and claims he spent his entire life working as a narco trafficker. He's been shot, captured, even tortured, all in loyal service to his employers, the Sinaloa Cartel. Until recently, Gabriel. Real says he was cooking large amounts of fentanyl on their behalf. You

the before the fentanyl prohibition, Gabriel cooked the cartel's drugs at home, not inside the house, but underneath it, in

foreign Gabriel claims he cooked fentanyl full time down here, producing 25 to 30 pounds a week. Fentanyl has a street value of roughly $10,000 per pound in America, which means Gabriel was generating hundreds of 1000s of dollars of profit for the cartel every Week, and he was handsomely compensated for his work in

the tunnel is actually part of the city's public drainage system, and it runs From Gabriel's house to right under a nearby freeway in

Gabriel and his colleagues would load the drugs into trucks on the side of the road, the fentanyl would then head north towards the United States, but Gabriel assures me those lucrative payments stopped the Night four men in masks paid him a visit. You

Gabriel is referring to a video Guzman, son of El Chapo, the former head of the Sinaloa cartel and the most successful drug trafficker in Mexican history. But in 2016 El Chapo was captured by the Mexican marines and sentenced to life in prison in the US. When he went down, his sons, the chapitos took over, but in 2023 Ovidio was also busted in

Gabriel thinks El Chapo sons are trying to get American law enforcement off their backs because they know the US is stepping up their fight against fentanyl. But what I saw spreading through the streets of Kensington wasn't pure fentanyl. You

It's the latest turn in America's ever evolving opioid epidemic. But is the fentanyl crackdown in Mexico actually motivating this evolution? The

one track dope has recently been reported in 48 states, which makes me want. Wonder what else was Gabriel Cooking in That tunnel you

you reporting on the criminal underworld comes with complications. Many of my sources lie for a living. So how can I trust what Gabriel told me about tranq dope, Miguel and I look for confirmation. You

but finding more chemists who are willing to speak is proving impossible for good reason. Yet despite the bloodshed, the cartel's rumored embargo doesn't appear to be affecting the supply. According to us, Customs and Border Protection in 2023 the year the embargo was announced, there was a 30% increase in fentanyl seizures in the United States. Something doesn't add up, but I can't keep snooping around Sinaloa without permission from the cartel leadership. Someone might get hurt you.

In Sinaloa, there simply comes a point when you have to kiss the ring. In

he calls himself el Cuervo The Crow and claims he works on behalf of the cartel bosses. He knows Miguel, and I can't find any current chemists willing to talk to me about fentanyl or tranq dope. You

il Cuervo offers me nothing about xylazine or tranq dope, But he does share something completely unexpected about fentanyl. You

Later that night, el Cuervo sends me coordinates for a secret location in

He's a chemist and a commander in the Sinaloa Cartel, charged with overseeing 70 men and 10 different fentanyl labs. He tells me to call him 08 If that's true, then I wonder if that's somehow connected to the rise of tranq dope. You. He tells me to call him 08 he's a chemist and a commander in the Sinaloa Cartel charged With overseeing 70 men and 10 different fentanyl labs, and because kuliakan is now crawling with undercover cops fighting the fentanyl trade, he's forced to operate out of makeshift backyard labs like this one in but zero weight is not being hunted by cartel hitmen, because, as I've come to discover, the prohibition isn't a total embargo. It's more of a marketing strategy, a publicity campaign to convince the Americans to back off in zero weight says he's producing 10 times less fentanyl than before, but he's still producing the the fentanyl lay stem 30 pills are light blue in color, with an imprinted M on one side and 30 on the other. The cartels make them to look just like the prescription opioid oxycodone, which can be legally purchased at pharmacies despite the emergence of tractope M, 30s are still in high demand from addicts throughout the US, and it's estimated that Mexico's cartels make close to a billion dollars from fentanyl sales every year. So that's why the world's most successful drug cartel seemingly wants to kill one of its cash cows. They don't care about America's fentanyl overdose deaths. They care about their leaders getting locked up in American prisons. Yet despite this partial prohibition, 08 shares something I never expected to hear. 08 assures me that they are not The ones mixing xylazine with fentanyl you

that's why I've come to Miami. One of my contacts here claims he can connect me with some of the biggest tranq dope dealers in the city. You

I'm surprised the meeting doesn't take place at a back alley trap house, but inside a stylish high rise a lot like one of these you

I'm still trying to find out why xylazine entered America's drug supply and who's mixing it in. And these two guys are hopefully going to tell me they call themselves chili and cheese and claim to be among Miami's biggest tranq dope dealers. I dealers, their operation is helping to fuel what some experts believe is the fourth wave of America's opioid epidemic.

We're sitting inside a high rise apartment near Miami Beach, one of five stash houses. Chili owns and operates, while cheese is one of 15 people working for him. And what I'm looking at tonight is about $100,000 worth of product You

You chilly tells me he buys his fentanyl from the Mexican cartels, but the animal tranquilizer, the xylazine itself, he acquires right here in Miami in.

You according to Chile. There's a good reason tranq dope is replacing pure fentanyl, and it's got nothing to do with the cartel's prohibition. When fentanyl first arrived on the black market, experts warned the drug would result in a catastrophic rise in overdose deaths. Two milligrams of fentanyl is a potentially lethal dose for most people, but some addicts report using hundreds of times that amount in a single day. The more opioids you use, the more you need to achieve the same effects You

but there's more than just chemistry at Play. You

you there's not much data available yet on the long term effects of xylazine, but what is clear is that this animal tranquilizer is present in over 90% of the drugs sold in Kensington. Xylazine is no longer an adulterant in the fentanyl supply. It is the supply, and fentanyl is the adulterant. Users like these never had a choice in the matter. It was slowly mixed into the drug supply. They know now, but it's Too late. Most are hooked the

Foreign five decades after Nixon launched America's war on drugs, the US government spent over $34 billion fighting it in the year 2020, and yet there were still more than 100,000 overdose deaths the following year, a 15% increase in

my team and I have been in contact with Ariana Ortiz for weeks. She'd been searching for her sister, Melissa, who I've been hoping to speak with you.

But on December 27 2023 a week before I was supposed to film with the sisters, Melissa died of an overdose. She was 33 years Old. You

No, it's not nearly enough. I believe the users on the streets aren't failing society. We are failing them. The opioid crisis is a story I've been covering my entire career. It's time we stop waiting for the next wave to hit you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai


CARTEL USA----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

They were able to identify the dismembered body found outside the cabin as Rozana Delgado, a 37 year old Venezuelan immigrant. Ken Howard and Jamie Abercrombie The investigation. Ken Howard and Jamie Abercrombie billion a year. outside the cabin as Rozana Delgado, a 37 year old Venezuelan immigrant. Ken Howard and Jamie Abercrombie are special agents with the Georgia rosanna's murder was order. special agents with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. ordered by her boss. special agents with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Edwin Morello, a drug trafficker with ties to a Mexican cartel. of Investigation. They were able to identify the dismembered body found outside the cabin as Rosanna Delgado A 37 year old Venezuelan immigrant in NT. NT. The investigation. revealed that Rosan. boss, Edwin Murillo, a drug trafficker with ties to a Mexican cartel known for employing ruthless gangland style tactics in mistakenly under the impression roshana was stealing from him, Murillo hired a Mexican Sicario or Professional HITMAN in the United States has long been the world's largest, most lucrative market for illicit drugs, a market estimated to be worth at least $150 The cash flowing south has corrupted governments across Latin America, and according to some sources, has given rise to at least 200 drug cartels in Mexico alone, resulting in a staggering amount of human carnage. But the murder of Rosanna Delgado is a wake up call That cartel related violence is much closer to home. You

I want to uncover the true extent of the cartel's reach north of the border by gaining access to one of their US cells. But to do it, I first need to head south to the seat of the crown,

kuliakan. Headquarters of the Sinaloa Cartel, one of the largest and most brutal drug trafficking organizations in the world. You

my friend, journalist Miguel, Ariel Vega knows firsthand how in the City narco trafficking is simply a fact of life in

I'm here to find someone high up in the cartel who can grant us permission to film their US operations. And Miguel is a man with connections to the key players you

you. Tony is in charge of logistics for several drug cells in the US, making him the perfect person to give me an insider's view of how the organization works. You

in recent years, advances in surveillance technology have allowed the cartels to extend their reach 1000s of miles from Mexico the.

Tony's fear of ending up in headlines like These means he's hesitant to give us access to

Sam meet the lieutenant who we'll call Sammy lieutenants are one of the highest ranking positions in a drug cartel. These are the guys who report directly to the big bosses, who are responsible for calling in hitmen and for granting the Access I'm looking for you. with ties to the US. in no matter how many times I've done it, being in a room full of people with guns is Always unnerving, Especially when everyone is noticeably on edge. You The Marines are a tight knit organization known to be the least corruptible of Mexico's armed forces. They're one of the few groups the cartels truly fear. It may not be the best time to push for access, But that's exactly what I am here to do you

despite our best efforts, we're forced to leave Mexico without knowing where The investigation is headed in

shortly after I arrive back in us, Sammy, the lieutenant comes through, Sending us to Minnesota, deep in the American heartland. You

but I'm learning fast that filming with the cartel in the United States is far more complicated than on their home turf. You

I meet Miguel on the outskirts of town. He's been working behind the scenes, coordinating with a lieutenant back in Mexico, who's been giving him the runaround.

To complicate the situation even further, the lieutenant's behavior has been growing increasingly paranoid. You

with access up in the air. Yet again, there's no choice but to head to the next location, which we've agreed not to disclose, just one of many conditions we've been given you.

I have no idea why a high ranking cartel Lieutenant would travel 1000s of miles from Sinaloa, Mexico to small town, USA, but it doesn't sound good. I. Foreign

after numerous false starts and dead ends. The latest twist is that the lieutenant will be personally overseeing our Shoot. You

clearly, I can't always believe what the lieutenant says, and despite him agreeing to let us film a drug buy that's about to go down, I'm doubtful He trusts Me, Either You

you With cameras off, the lieutenant tells me he doesn't like my line of questioning, and to make matters worse, right before we resume filming, he gets a radio transmission that our presence is disrupting his sail. You.

Months after starting this investigation, and major pieces of the puzzle are still missing, I'm getting the sense there's a vast operation going on here, but we're only being allowed a tiny glimpse in but then I remember a series of messages I dismissed a few months ago from someone claiming to be an American working for the cartel.

At the time, I doubted he was legit, but now Desperate for answers, I've decided to take a Chance. You

you. Born and raised in the United States, el Gringo, as he tells me to call him, isn't who I expected to be working for the Mexican cartels

as a wholesale buyer. He's the crucial link in the supply chain between the cartel and his own underworld distribution networks across The Us In

cartels use the term office to refer to what's essentially a cell's regional distribution center. They're often located in normal looking houses, allowing The operation to hide In Plain Sight the

If El gringo is right, then the threat of cartel violence in America may be even more widespread than I thought.

My next stop a meeting with a man who puts weapons On the streets in

legitimate businesses grow market share Through ad campaigns and acquisitions in the drug business, growth happens in more ruthless ways.

Miguel has arranged access to An illegal weapons sale in

Mike is an American arms dealer who sells to the cartels, perpetually shadowed by a bodyguard. He moves around the country demoing guns for potential buyers like this guy,

Mike custom makes his merchandise to cartel specifications, reliable, adaptable and extra lethal. I

But the main reason these weapons are in such high demand. It is that they're virtually untraceable you

ghost guns are fully functioning firearms made from a combination of readily available over the counter components and printed parts the

with more and more orders coming in all The time, Mike can't keep up with The match you

the violence, the guns, the drugs, it's all in the service of this cash. But what do the cartels do with billions of dollars of Dirty Money? I'm going to meet someone who knows you.

The cartel machine famously includes bosses, lieutenants, bodyguards and Assassins. But this lucrative, multi billion dollar enterprise wouldn't exist without the people who manage the cash in you.

One of Magnus responsibilities is stashing the proceeds of drug sales before they get smuggled over the border. You

the logistical challenge of laundering so much money is almost hard to imagine. Out of necessity, the cartels take a scatter shot approach. They invest in cash intensive businesses like laundromats and car washes. They make big purchases in luxury real estate, jewelry, exotic cars or prize winning race horses. And lately, to avoid leaving a paper trail, they've started to rely on an ever growing number of sophisticated financial maneuvers. These include investments in less regulated cryptocurrencies and funneling cash through Chinese banks. You

but perhaps the most insidious part of the business is one that few people think about, and yet it's the key to the cartel's success, bribes anywhere the cartels are operating positive. Palms are getting greased. Over the course of my reporting, the topic came up in Nearly every conversation you

as a journalist, I have to be skeptical of my sources, especially when they have a clear motivation to lie. So perhaps the most damning evidence about the corrupting influence of the cartels comes From the front lines in The fight against them In

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

SCAMS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We've all received messages like these.

Some have taken the bait, only to find they've been lured into a new kind of online investment scam.

It's tragic for those who fall victim, but what they don't know is that many scammers are victims themselves.

I've done a lot of stories about scams, but nothing could have prepared me for this massive factory like compounds packed with human trafficking victims brutally tortured and forced to scam.

I want to talk to some of those who've made it out alive and discover who's behind these crimes you

I'm here to investigate the source of some disturbing videos being passed around on social media.

Videos like these, early reporting suggested they were coming from desperate labor trafficking victims trapped somewhere in Southeast Asia who were forced to participate In a scam with a sinister name, pig butchering in

after a period of flirting, the person on the other end of the line introduces an opportunity to get rich through What look like real investment sites you

the scam is called pig butchering, because like a farmer who gradually fattens up a pig, the scammer extracts more and More money from the target, until finally the slaughter the

it's estimated that $75 billion has been stolen worldwide, and recovering that money is nearly impossible. That's where the scam ends for victims in the US, but not for the people doing the scamming in make

I've come to Thailand because some of the most extreme human trafficking videos I've seen have been traced to this area. Pig butchering compounds have been cropping up across Southeast Asia, but Ground Zero is a 44 mile stretch of Myanmar along the Thai border, just a short distance from where I am right now you.

You use a was hard to find anyone willing to talk, but eventually a local contact put us in touch with a whistleblower. He insists we obscure his identity to protect him from his former employers, who he says are Extremely dangerous in

it's hard to believe. How many people fall for pig butchering scams, but there's a proven formula that makes them so effective. After establishing trust, scammers spend weeks or even months love bombing their victims. You

it's been reported that foreign workers are being lured from across the world to Myanmar by the promise of good jobs, only to find themselves caught in a trap you

there are dozens of fortress like scamming compounds in The area, and all are off limits to journalists in

Amy Miller works for an NGO called acts of mercy. She's driven me to the MOI River, where some of these scam factories in Myanmar are visible from the relative safety of Thailand. I

After a recent military coup, Myanmar's central government lost control of much of the country. In the resulting chaos, Chinese mafia groups developed these highly lucrative scamming operations protected by political instability and payoffs to local militias, they are beyond the rule of law. You

the word of Amy's group has spread throughout the compounds, but those trapped inside risk severe punishments if caught Using smuggled cell phones to reach out for help you.

The video on a cell phone is only a tiny window into these scamming compounds to understand what's really happening inside, I need to talk to someone who's experienced these horrors firsthand. You

Lin is a Chinese national whose nightmare began when he accepted an offer of what appeared to be legitimate work you

Lin had fallen victim to a human trafficking ring. He was smuggled on a days long journey through the jungle until he arrived at one of the scam compounds In Myanmar in

you despite cover up attempts, the conditions faced by victims like Lynn have been captured in a series of leaked videos and pictures you

stories of confinement and torture were confirmed by another trafficking victim I spoke with named Ajay you.

Constant threats of psychological and physical abuse are designed to keep trafficked workers in line. Conditions are so barbaric, some will do anything to get out the

despite what Lin went through, he's one of the lucky ones you

foreign since the military coup entering this part of Myanmar has become extremely dangerous right now, Karen state, where these compounds are located, is a battleground with ethnic militias and the military junta fighting for power in

we were able to arrange passage into Myanmar, as well as a meeting with the People who run Shui Coco, a city that's become practically synonymous with pig butchering scams in

the territory across the river is controlled by The BGF, a powerful militia group that has been linked to war crimes and a variety of illegal industries, including drug smuggling and Human Trafficking. The

as soon as we are. Arrived at the BGF checkpoint. Our phones were inspected. We hadn't filmed anything with them, and luckily, we got out of having to show our cameras. Then we were ushered into a waiting car. You

militia groups control this region, but Shikoku is effectively owned and operated by a shadowy Chinese corporation called Yatai International in

we're greeted by Mr. He yathan's chairman, who insists on offering us a tour of his city. You

in the past few years, Yatai has been embroiled in multiple scandals related to scamming, money laundering and human trafficking.

I suspect this strictly controlled publicity tour is an attempt to clean up yet eyes image in

ya Tai's original plan was to turn Shui Koko into a gambling hub like Las Vegas or Macau. They poured billions of dollars into the development, but COVID and a civil war seemed to have put an end to the dream of raking in tourist dollars

these may indeed be apartments, but We've been informed Yatai is also renting to scamming companies to keep The City afloat In

before we were allowed to visit, I had to submit a list of questions to Yatai, Mr. He takes great care reading his responses directly from a laptop, especially when it comes to ya Tai's founder, Shou Ji Zhang the subject of intense media scrutiny in recent years, he's currently in a Thai prison awaiting extradition to China and sanctioned by the British government for links to human trafficking in

but I didn't come here to listen to corporate talking points. You.

even though she's not a trafficking victim, Angel has little freedom. She works long hours, seven days a week, and is only allowed to leave the compound once every six months you buildings under Yeti's jurisdiction. but Still, he refuses to stray from the company line, you in direct contradiction to yatize claims. We found someone currently working for a scamming company in the heart of. Shui Coco, the angel was so desperate to get her story out that She risked crossing to Thailand to talk to me. The when scamming targets ask to FaceTime the person they've been chatting with, that's where video call models like angel come in. You. As a citizen of Myanmar, her situation is different than The foreign workers who were lured into the compounds in you, As bad as it is in chuekoko, we hear that conditions at nearby scamming compounds are much worse for many of the 10s of 1000s of people who are held captive in this area, humanitarian groups like Amy's are the only way out.

She's formed a network of people who do anything they can to help in

if enough money can be raised to pay off compound bosses, they will sometimes agree to a release, but it's a complicated and dangerous process that depends on the skills of people like the Man I'm about to meet you.

We're calling him the negotiator for his own protection. We need to obscure his identity and meet An abandoned warehouse on The outskirts of town in

you this type of work comes with A heavy emotional toll, especially when the negotiator isn't successful.

Compound bosses have also been known to steal the ransom money and severely punish victims for trying to leave. But with conditions so bad, many are willing to gamble their lives for freedom.

Today, the negotiator is teaming up with Amy to try and rescue a young woman named MJ. Amy.

You now that MJ is release has been initiated, the clock is ticking while the negotiator crosses the border into Myanmar. Amy will coordinate from afar. Her job is to make sure everyone reaches the compound gates in time for the exchange. You.

Amy is relying on help from one of her contacts, who's in the same compound as MJ AM.

At the same time, another activist, Judah Tana, is on the phone with the negotiator, who's now in position, waiting for MJ. I

but there's a problem. Nobody can get a Hold of MJ. You

getting lost or attracting attention from the wrong person could spell disaster, and the longer it drags on, the more likely It is that the rescue mission will fall apart.

In addition to concern over MJ, the negotiator who's waiting with the ransom money is risking his own safety and feeling The pressure the

it's been a roller coaster of a day trying to get just one woman out of one. Compound, and she's not in the clear yet. You

MJ finally made it to the gates where the negotiator was waiting, but before the deal could be completed, he was detained by one of The militia groups fighting for control of The area in

the scale of this crisis is staggering. There are estimated to be 10s of 1000s of people like MJ imprisoned in these facilities. Throughout my journey, I've seen how pig butchering scams have connected and upended lives across The world in

speaker, whether a victim of circumstance or trafficking, those stuck in Myanmar have little recourse. Groups like Amy and Judas remain one of the lone sources of hope, underfunded, understaffed, and yet, against all odds, still saving lives. You

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

HEISTS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You're driving on some of the most dangerous roads in the world behind the wheel of an armored truck with close to a million dollars in the back, escorted by a team armed with high caliber weapons, monitored in real time from a control center with chopper support above you,

and Yet you feel anything but safe,

15 men coming for you, highly trained, armed with automatic weapons In a high stakes game of cat and mouse, You

welcome to the deadly world of highway robbery. You.

In March of 2024 an LAPD SWAT team came looking for a gang member believed to be a part of the Chesapeake bandits, a crew that had pulled off four armored car heists in

i Police say, Rocco who was killed reaching for his gun and his accomplices had stolen more than half a million dollars part of a growing number of armored Car robberies in major American cities. That's what caught my attention. In a world of cryptocurrencies and artificial intelligence, it's hard to imagine that tactics dating back to the days of stage coaches would be an effective way to steal money. I want to understand how these cash heists work, and how robbers are getting away with them.

If anyone would know, it's Playboy, a gang member I met two years ago. At the time he was making good money selling weed and untraceable guns,

I'd reached out to Playboy to find out if he knew of any other groups who have moved on to robbing armored cars,

which is what brought me

to a safe house 20 stories above Los Angeles.

X spike and bone are la gang members who have formed their own stick up crew. You

footage from a robbery in Denver shows it was just a matter of seconds before guards were overpowered and money stolen in

There were 49 CIT or cash in transit robberies in America in 2023 the last year the FBI published

data and overseas,

in Brazil, Australia, the UK and Mexico, news reports and clips shared on social media

tell a similar story, but

what's happening in a different corner of the world is something else altogether. In 2023 there were 234 cash in transit attacks in a single country, South Africa, where heist crews are locked in a deadly arms race with security Companies, a conflict centered in the city of Johannesburg in

John Mornay Dutoit heads up investigations and operations for fidelity security, the largest cash in transit company in South Africa to enter this facility. I've been fingerprinted, frisked, and had my face biometrically scanned, then steps through seven double locked security doors you

So that's roughly $14,000 per box to be put on the road as part of the $50 million transported by CIT trucks every day, while in Western countries, payments have gone digital. In South Africa, cash is still king. Here, 15% of adults are without bank accounts, and so the circulation of cash is critical to the country's economy. In

there's been nearly one cash in transit attack per day in South Africa in 2024 most of them connected to the country's highly organized crime groups. Last year, while reporting on South Africa's assassins, I made contacts in the underworld, contacts I've leaned on To gain access to an Active team of robbers in

in South Africa, every member of a high. Screw has a specific role to play, and as a general in this world, it is busters job to assemble a team and put a plan in motion. You

foreign that's nearly a quarter million dollars in a country where the average salary is under $20,000 per year, such high stakes have set up an escalating war between security companies and high schools with seemingly endless resources, firepower and legal authority, security forces should have the advantage, but over the course of years, high screws here have developed a playbook to tilt the odds in their favor. The

the surveillance team consists of two to three men who study the route of an armored car count the number of vehicles and guards that accompany it and pinpoint a location where It can be ambushed you.

While Buster checks with his people, I'm heading to see what's happening on the other side.

One thing is clear, if this is a cat and mouse game. Neither side sees itself as the mouse. At Fidelity's training center outside of Johannesburg, a group akin to a private army is preparing for battle here, drivers pass through boot camp,

pilots fly through drills

and fast reaction. Teams engage in exercises training to repel the exact type of attack busters team is preparing to execute the

in this drill, a CIT truck has already come under fire And the driver has been shot in the leg. Enter Fidelity's Rapid Reaction team on a mission to outgun the robbers, extract their colleague and safeguard the cash you

in many ways, this training can be seen as a response to the violent crime that runs rampant throughout South Africa. Russia, and as this social media footage captured the inability of the country's police force to stop it.

Police here are underfunded, overwhelmed and riddled with corruption, so security companies have filled the vacuum with 2.7 million private licensed officers, a number that has nearly doubled In the last 10 years. The

in this fleet of helicopters has been an expensive yet necessary addition for fidelity, allowing the company to locate and pursue robbers when they flee the scene, but the primary line of defense is on the ground. Drivers begin their career with six weeks of course work and militarized training, hardening them to become the first line of defense against an attack. If these recruits make it past training, they can expect to earn about $1,000 a month, a respectable wage for a blue collar job in South Africa.

But there's a catch.

In the face of overwhelming power, most CIT drivers put their hands up and comply with their attackers according to fidelity. This is what they're trained to do, but some decide to fight back.

For the past 32 years, Dolph has been driving a CIT truck, making him a moving target for highwaymen the

footage of that attack was captured by mounted cameras on The Truck The

the gunman took off, leaving the money behind. Dolph was rescued by a team of security officers and airlifted to a hospital in

Foreign Military Weapons have become plentiful and cheap on the black market in South Africa, and so as robbers have upgraded their arsenals, security companies have fought back with technology, betting the lives of their drivers on two inches of glass you

at a cost of nearly $1,000 per panel. CIT companies are investing heavily in technology like bullet block windows made of glass, polycarbonate and adhesive film.

This glass is the latest in a long line of specialized products deployed globally by security companies, including exploding dye packs that stain money, nozzles that spray glue, turning cash tax into bricks. And this a specialized foam that quickly expands and hardens when activated, effectively freezing money in place. Despite these advances, often the most effective tool to combat these attacks is not technology at all, but information in

on this one point even criminals agree on

for obvious reasons, finding an informant who will talk to us has proven almost

impossible, almost

here, in an isolated location outside of Johannesburg, It's about to happen. You.

The meeting has been set up at A safe house where I've been joined by JJ, a local producer Who's agreed to translate you.

If this was a Hollywood film, pepper would be known as the muscle of The operation in South Africa. He's simply the gunman in

up to eight vehicles will typically be stolen for a single heist, including a heavy German car, pickup trucks to block traffic and move gunmen and sports cars for A quick getaway You

It's a clever tactic, one that sells a Robin Hood narrative to the community while effectively shutting down roads to await an escape. To counter this, security companies have invested in air support, and what have the robbers done to counter air support? The

but that kind of chaos is a drop in the bucket compared to the latest innovation by heist crews. 15 years ago, in response to a rash of armed truck robberies, many South African money trucks began to be fitted with onboard safes that had to be remotely opened from a control center. But as these clips on social media show, they inadvertently ushered in an age

of carnage

when crime syndicates found themselves unable to force drivers to open the safes. They came up with a new method To get the cash,

high powered explosives you

like San Francisco back in the 1800s the city of Johannesburg began as a gold rush town, and as the number of gold mines proliferated, so too did the need for dynamites in

today, with plenty of mining operations still nearby, it's not hard to source black market explosives, but getting An underground Demolition Man to talk hasn't been easy. You

in the end, both Buster and pepper vouch for me, which is what led me here for a face to face, meeting with the most elusive and rare member of any heist crew,

The bomber you

prior to the heist, super will have prepared up to eight different explosives. Then once he's inside the truck, he'll make a split second decision about which one is best for the job. You

Super wouldn't share details on his upcoming job, but he did agree to meet up later in the day After buying The explosives you

that's 500 to $800

you from

modest beginnings, the escalation in this arms race has gone sky high. South Africa security forces created cash centers to minimize bank robberies so the robbers set their sights on CIT trucks instead of banks. Security companies then militarized to out gun robbers. And robbers militarized to out gun security. CIT companies recruited a secretive network of informants, which high screws did their best to identify and assassinate. Companies put helicopters in the skies, and robbers put cross hairs on those helicopters to chase them away. And finally, hoping high tech would give them a leg up, security companies installed remote locks on the safes in armored cars, and robbers put bombs on those armored cars to bypass the

remote locks.

And so what comes next for security companies? The dream of a bomb proof truck, the

the armored truck bombings have created a Financial sinkhole for CIT companies, which have to self insure much of the cash they carry, as well as replace destroyed trucks at a cost of roughly 100 grand each. On the flip side, they've created a steady stream of business for truck makers like the company led by Nadine, twice a year. Her research department bombs its own CIT trucks and studies how best to harden future models.

Now you see it. You.

Now you Don't you

online footage shows how for security officers who survive a heist, the chaos doesn't end with the burning remains of a truck. It can also devolve into a scene like this, guards fighting to defend what's left of the truck and its contents while locals come running.

It can get violent, very violent,

but what if it could be prevented? The carnage, the financial loss, the arms race with a new kind of cash in transit truck, one that borrows heavily from vehicles deployed to war zones at Nadine company, which she prefers not to name, those next generation trucks are rolling off The assembly line destined to carry cash For fidelity you

for now that creativity has given the robbers the advantage You

It's a common refrain the

back in LA X spike and bone blame economic conditions as well. They say they are moving forward with plans for new robberies, joining the ranks of crews in Texas,

North Carolina and Pennsylvania.

Maybe we shouldn't be surprised.

People will steal just about anything to make money. They'll steal cars to make money.

They'll steal jewelry.

They'll even steal identities. So you better believe if they get the chance, they'll steal money to make money.

It's as simple and ugly as that you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

STREET RACING----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


I've heard about the popularity of underground street races, but seeing them with my own eyes was something else. This was it, the real fast and furious,

the big screen has always loved the drama of a street race, but my favorite moment happens even before the race begins, right as the cars pull up to the starting line, when the drivers give each Other the look it can be cocky or meek, determined or terrified, but it is the look of a person standing on the edge knowing their life is about to change to street race is to push the limits of what a machine and a person can handle Hollywood may love the stunts and special effects,

but the danger is all too real. The

this is a journey from the streets of New York to the barrios of the Dominican Republic to uncover the motivation and the money behind one of the deadliest subcultures on the planet, you

I'm on the way to a mechanic shop in the Bronx, where I'm told there's a crew getting ready for an underground race.

Joelly and Teddy are both Bronx natives who race in the underground circuit you

joelli says that he invests some of the money he wins from racing into building his cars. The modifications on this one alone cost Over $15,000 in

joelli has a strong following on social media. He's one of many racers across the country who have helped boost the popularity of street racing, and tonight, joelli is upping the stakes, encouraging his online fans to show up in person and gamble on the race. Teddy is an up and coming racer hoping to make a name for himself so he can break into competitions with bigger payouts the.

Joelli didn't want to get too specific, but he did tell me that the groups with a lot of spare cash work in a variety of black market industries, from scamming to sex work to the drug trade, these groups are known to bet 1000s of dollars on a single race. As for the drivers and their teams, they Front their own cash. Winner takes all you

you blocking traffic alone poses major safety hazards, and once a race gets going, there's no telling what could happen you

the crew turns onto Bruckner expressway, a notoriously Traffic heavy freeway that runs through the South Bronx the

some of Joe Ellie's Instagram followers have turned up and are helping to form a barricade you

foreign for public safety reasons, the police in New York aren't authorized to chase street racers, but if the setup For this race takes too long, or one of these modified cars breaks, the cops will likely seize the vehicles and arrest the drivers you

before the race, the cars need To warm up the tires and test the traction on

you Teddy the underdog wins the

after blocking highway traffic For over 15 minutes, the cops have been alerted the

after the race, the two teams gather at a parking lot nearby tonight, Teddy walks away with $5,000 the.

The race went smoothly. But that's not always the case. As more and more racers take to the streets, serious injuries and deaths are rising in

in response to these threats, Law Enforcement Task Forces are popping up across The country.

Sergeant Fincher is a member of the auto Crimes Enforcement Unit in Atlanta, Georgia.

But it's a challenge for these task forces To keep pace with the underground scene. You

you yet? Even with all these tools at their disposal, the cat and mouse game persists in

but there is no question that danger is part of the allure. Few subcultures are as universally beloved on social media as street racing these viral clips capture a spectacle that can flip in an instant from total control to total chaos. It's pure adrenaline, and it seems like no country can resist the high in

every illegal circuit has its own style, its own method of pushing the limits you

a few days and a few miles from where we filmed joelli and Teddy we meet with a group of New Yorkers who tell me, nowhere pushes The limits quite like their homeland, the Dominican Republic, street racing in the DR is a high stakes game

for many in the country. Underground racing crews are as famous as elite sports teams, and these head to head showdowns are flush with underground cash. If I want to get in with some of the best street racers in the world, I'm told there's one man I have to find first. They're buki, rumored to be the most well connected man on the Island.

Statistically, the Dominican Republic has some of the most lethal roads in the world. But every day, young racers put their lives on the line in the hopes of winning big in.

I've arrived in the Dominican city of San Francisco on Independence Day, a day that's become notorious for street racing meetups.

This is the man I was introduced to over the phone in the Bronx. He's a buki and one of the top organizers for illegal street races here. These Dominican races have become so well known that John collects money from all around the world in

today, he's looking for budding talent, young racers, who might have what It takes you.

Although today was a bus for John, he tells me he can introduce me to the hottest team on the island

in the racing world. Team on Manolo is the current crew to beat Manolo is a famous mechanic who builds and owns bikes that are then raced by Tico, one of the fastest up and coming racers in the country. The duo is preparing for an upcoming competition against another popular team in

motorcycles make up nearly 60% of vehicles in the DR they're more affordable and nimble than cars, which is part of what makes them perfect for racing,

racers often finish within seconds of each other, so cutting weight and drag is crucial. Mechanics strip bikes of every expendable part, including, believe it or

not, the brakes. Length. Laying flat makes the rider more aerodynamic, but it also makes the bike much harder to control. Racers need to be able to hang on to the speeding motorcycle without shifting their weight and causing the bike to spin out to downshift racers use their hands and because there are No brakes, they have to stop with their feet. You

gambling and street racing go hand in hand, but die hard fans invest on the front end by sponsoring race teams. Mechanics need money to build the fastest bikes. You.

I want to understand the business of racing. I'm told that most sponsors are everyday fans, but some of the biggest patrons are shadowy figures with very deep pockets. You

after days of off the record conversations, I finally secure an interview with one of these big time sponsors who's also a big time Narco.

This is a man we'll call El Tigre. He's a notorious drug dealer who runs his operation in the capital Santo Domingo. He says he uses the profits from his drug business to sponsor racing teams you

El Tigre has been running his drug operation for 15 years. He says he often bets on races, sometimes even betting with drugs.

Five kilos of coke has a street value of around $120,000

everyone from owners and sponsors to the fans, betting on the ground and tuning in on live streams,

wants a piece of the action, and the bigger the event, the more money it generates. Tico and Manolo are vying for their Cut, prepping for the next big race. You

foreign testing the bike is critical, but every run is risky. Local News and social media are riddled with videos of accidents, deaths you

midway Through the run, a car turns onto the road, and Tycho is forced to maneuver around it. He avoids the accident, but barely the.

You. Tico sets up for another run, hoping to cover the quarter mile track In less than 10 seconds, If all goes well, you

that's 108 miles per hour. He covered the quarter mile stretch in under nine seconds. You

Tycho takes off with his bike before the police can confiscate it, but the fact that the cops showed up at a practice run makes me wonder whether the actual race will happen at all the

John The Bucha I met the other day, is in charge of logistics the

there's a lot of cash flying around on race days, and John says that most of it comes from one key source.

I've seen people in the Bronx betting on individual races, but I had no idea that this whole underground scene is made possible largely by American investment in

the tragic moment which happened at a race just the day before was caught on video. A spectator steps into the road with a camera in hand and is immediately hit by one of the bikes, according to John, the Fan survived with minor injuries, But the racer died the

over 20% of Dominicans live below the poverty line, and young people face especially high unemployment rates in.

We're checking up on Tico the day before the big race.

On the track, Tico is known for his intense focus and fearlessness, but off the track. He's a young father who lives with his parents behind a convenience store run by his dad. You

at the time, Tico was working as a food delivery driver, but street racing was his dream. A friend lent him a bike to enter a race. Tico was hooked, and his raw talent caught Manolo Zai in

was testing his bike when a car unexpectedly turned onto the street, a situation much like the one we saw the day before with Tico,

except Chiqui collided head on with the car. He was 19 years Old and a father you

for Chico racing is about more than just a need for speed. His mom is sick in the hospital, and he says the bills are piling up the

Tomorrow, Tico says he'll be racing for his mom. I

you. John is the first to arrive. He's here to handle the money go over race rules and keep an eye out for law enforcement.

As other bikers start to gather, the excitement is palpable. You. But well past the hour, Tico and Manolo still haven't arrived. Manolo worked on tico's bike through the night, but I get word that something broke in the 11th Hour. Now the pair is racing the clock. It's well past 6am and the longer they take, the more likely the cops are to bust the race you

the group splits up To distract them. Finally, Tico And Manolo show up in

today's pool is a little under 6000 US dollars. You

you. Now the spectators on the ground place their bets. John pulls all of the money, which has quickly moved to a secure location.

The riders disperse and head to the race location, which is a couple miles away on a stretch of highway,

just like in the race in the Bronx, the crowd has to work quickly to block off traffic you

as the writers take their mark, they try to psych each other out, and there it is The look that I've only Ever seen In movies the

the more time that passes, the harder it is to keep traffic from getting through, which makes the race all the more dangerous the.

There are over 100 people standing in the middle of one of the city's busiest highways, and tensions are running high, but finally, the racers are In position You

I after dodging the police, John And the team land back in Manolo shop to celebrate and settle up.

Manolo will take home the lion's share of the winnings, $4,600 $4,600 to recoup his investment in the bike. John gets 5% for managing the money and the police at the end of the day, Tico only takes home $900 the

I Tico knows that this money won't cover all of his family's expenses or provide a better life for his son, but he says that one day he's going to get there. I hope he does, but mostly I hope the people I've met along this journey stay safe from the Dominican Republic to the Bronx and all around the world, young racers are betting it all on a Need for Speed and a shot at financial freedom. You

Transcribed by https://otter.ai


REHAB----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


What begins as a search for the Missing leads me into a twisted underworld. I

where people struggling with addiction are now the products being bought and sold in a multi billion dollar black market that stretches from coast to coast.

This is an investigation into the dark side of the rehab industry,

a place so rife with greed and exploitation, some patients are forced to run for their lives.

I want to know how the business of getting clean Got so dirty. I

you this Navajo prayer is one that no parent ever wants to say.

Tim and Deb's son Christopher has been missing for two months you

Ian. After high school, Chris quickly got hooked on harder drugs, a story that's all too common in tribal communities where generational trauma and poverty drive some of the nation's highest addiction rates. This

is when a friend brought Chris into what's called a sober living home, a safe, supervised place to live. And according to Tim and Deb, it was all being paid for by Medicaid. The home would also provide transport to treatment At outside facilities. His parents were hopeful the

Chris was shuffled between multiple locations in under a year. They say his addiction spiraled from meth to fentanyl, and then they lost contact. His parents reached out to several of the sober homes, but they got no answers in

And as I learn, it's not just Chris, you

Reva Stewart, a Navajo activist, has been meticulously creating case files for the missing, and most share a chilling detail their last known location, A sober living home you

her cousin, who struggled with alcohol abuse, had been picked up from her reservation by two men offering help.

She passed out when she woke up, she was across State lines at a sober living home in Phoenix, the

it was Rivas aha moment when she realized that her files of missing People were actually evidence of a booming new scam in

frustrated by what seemed like a lack of urgency, Riva decided to take matters into her own hands, hitting the streets with her team to search for the missing in

Steve Tim and Deb have joined Rivas group tonight hoping to turn up clues about Christopher.

Almost everyone we meet is Native American, and almost everyone says they were either recruited or knows someone who was recruited into at least One sober home before ending up on the streets. You

we even hear stories of people being locked inside sober homes, and very few seem to have received the help they were promised in

you to understand what may have happened to Christopher, I need to unravel how this scam actually works, why Native Americans are being targeted, and who is profiting you.

Not long ago, Holly Ann, short hair, was living on these streets, struggling with his own addiction when a sober living home hired him to become a recruiter, or what's known in the industry as a body broker. You

his job to find the heads to fill the beds. I

at the time, holy an was desperate for cash, and his boss paid him under the table up to $200 for each person he brought in in

kickbacks like This are illegal, but apparently it's A common tactic the

in the American Indian Health Plan was established to address long standing health care inequities for Native Americans during COVID, rules were relaxed so anyone could be signed up for a government funded health plan with just one phone call. That meant opportunists like Holly Ann's boss could lure people into sober homes with the promise of getting help and then build a state of Arizona for hundreds of 1000s of dollars in addiction treatments that were never actually provided. It was easy money in

holy an says that after two years of recruiting, he was unable to bear the guilt, and he finally quit. You

in 2023 in response to the outcry of tribal leaders and activists like Riva, the governor's office announced they had started to take action against a growing list of alleged fraudulent providers, suspending over 100 facilities and issuing 45 indictments. But despite the crackdown, we've heard that some of these fraudulent sober homes are still active. I've been tipped off about one that's larger than Most, and it's possible Christopher could be there. You

we're here to try and understand what's happening at this complex formerly a Ramada Inn. You

Christina. Bly is Dennis's sister in law. This is the first time she has ever openly told her story. I operated this one, you found hope changed its name but otherwise it's been business as usual. talk. this man named Nicholas says He's one of roughly 110 people. staying at the former. in 2023 when the state started shutting down sober homes, he tells me that the company that operated this one, new found hope changed its name, but otherwise it's been business as usual. You You newfound hope is a name I've repeatedly come across while researching this story. It was one of the companies that had its license suspended by Arizona after allegations of Medicaid fraud in 2023 the This is Dennis artilles. He and his wife are the owners of newfound hope. After the Arizona Health Department issued the company a cease and desist for running an unlicensed healthcare institution, Dennis ultimately signed an agreement with the state that forced him to shut down his entire operation for two years, and yet, here we are seeing two of his shuttered locations seemingly very much in business. Dennis has denied wrongdoing, but as I work on tracking him down, I get a lucky break. I connect with someone in the family who wants to meet I Christina tells me that it's common for some sober homes to entice Native Americans with the promise of free housing. Then once inside, they are taken to bogus outpatient treatment programs that fail to provide the help they so desperately Need, while the scammers bill it all to Medicaid. You

i and in addition to the exploitation of vulnerable people, as of 2024 this kind of fraud has cost the state of Arizona and its taxpayers Close to $3 billion and the number keeps rising in

the problem is there are hundreds of bad actors out there because these rehab scams are not confined to Arizona alone.

Experts say the epicenter is Southern California, a region known as the rehab Riviera, where I've heard some of the industry's most nefarious actors have set up shop.

I've come to Los Angeles because this is the hot spot of addiction fraud. It's not just Native Americans being recruited, it's people from every background and walk of life. The operations here are more sophisticated, more elusive and even more dangerous than Arizona in

I'm talking with Captain Vlad mikolich, investigator for The Fraud Division of the California Department of Insurance. I

He estimates that these fraudulent rehab facilities rake in perhaps a billion dollars a year in

I can't say I'm all that surprised, but I Want to understand how it works from the inside. You

Nathan to protect her safety. We're calling this young woman Daphne. She came here from the northwest, hoping that the good weather and upscale treatment programs would be just what she needed to kick her fentanyl addiction. You.

Since Daphne was only 23 she was covered by her mother's private insurance policy, which made her a prime target for fraudulent treatment programs the

but the fancy real estate is where Daphne tells me the promise of A good program ended, and that not only was there no supervision, alcohol and drug use were openly allowed as an incentive for the clients to stay in

SHE SAYS THE HOUSE managers were mostly just long time clients, and often the ones supplying the drugs.

Urine testing is so profitable in these schemes, it's nicknamed liquid gold, they mandate it for every client every week, and charge their insurance up to $1,000 per test. Daphne says testing clean isn't the point. In fact, when clients want to leave, they're Sometimes offered big money to test dirty you.

Daphne stories are so shocking, I tracked down several industry insiders and other clients to corroborate them. They all kept pointing me back to sober homes and treatment facilities owned by one man, Nathan young, also known as Pablo Lopez,

although they wanted to remain anonymous, their accounts of the system here were equally disturbing in

My sources tell me he's being investigated by authorities. He's also dealing with multiple lawsuits, including one from Aetna that alleges his business weaponizes addiction for profit. But nevertheless, it seems Pablo continues to operate freely. You.

You Michael was the operations manager at one of Pablos flagship detox facilities. He tells me that by owning all the stages of treatment, basically monopolizing care, Pablo was able to lure in young clients like Daphne and essentially trap them in a dangerous cycle, every step optimized for his own profit in.

Michael tells me that recently, Pablo has been expanding his recruiting operation even further the

I, after hearing all of this, I really want to find Pablo, but then I get an unexpected tip about a Couple trying to break free from One of his sober homes. You

I'm on the phone with an activist who helps victims of fraudulent treatment programs. This morning, she got an urgent call from a couple desperate To leave a sober home owned by Pablo Lopez. You

this couple, who we're calling Jack and Sandy, tells me they'd hit rock bottom with their meth addictions and couldn't afford help, so when a recruiter offered free plane tickets to California and treatment, and treatment, they saw a lifeline. They never expected it to turn out this way.

Unlike Daphne, Jack and Sandy, were on a cheap insurance plan that the recruiters had signed them up for. So they were given very little of anything except the one thing they were trying to run away from you.

And instead of being enticed to stay, they say they were often threatened with being kicked out. Out and then moved to an even worse location. They show me a video of One of these recent incidents. You

Nothing seems ethically right about what I've witnessed in this investigation, and it's about time to ask some tough questions to those responsible you John

after weeks of trying to set up a meeting with Dennis artilles, the CEO of newfound hope, who seems To be operating an unlicensed sober home out of a decommissioned Ramada Inn in Arizona. I get a text from him agreeing to a phone Interview. You

you Dennis did end up shutting down the operation At the former hotel in February of 2024, one month after we filmed it, and one year after new found hope was initially suspended over allegations of Medicaid fraud, the people housed there were reportedly only given four hours to evacuate as. Nathan young, also known as Pablo Lopez, he refused our multiple requests for an interview, but through his PR team, I was invited to tour one of his sober homes in Los Angeles.

I imagine this would be a bit of a dog and pony show, and it was the property I toured was in great shape. The manager was very sweet,

and the clients that were hand selected for me to speak with had glowing things to say about their experiences.

I don't doubt a word of what they tell me. I'm sure Nathan Young's facilities are helping some clients, but none of the people I met are in a position to answer the serious allegations of fraud and abuse that have been levied against Nathan young himself, when we reached out to Nathan young, aka Pablo Lopez, with questions, his legal team threatened to sue us, refused to make him available for comment and demanded that We included the statement despite an ongoing series of baseless attacks on him and his work, Nathan Young is determined to continue to offer a safety net and a way out for people whose only options in life are often reduced to homelessness, institutionalization or death. There's no doubt that this country's addiction crisis has left 10s of 1000s of people in utter desperation. But what the statement leaves out is something I think most people who work in the rehab industry know only too well that the crisis has also opened the door for the exploitation of a broken health care system. Captain mikolich wouldn't comment specifically on Nathan young that he admitted that the current laws just Aren't tough enough to put bad actors behind bars in

from here in California, where critics Say addiction is essentially weaponized to trap and exploit people in systems designed for profit to Arizona, where vulnerable native communities are easy targets for fraud. Our health care system has somehow allowed these scams to flourish, and all of us are footing the bill.

As for the people we met, Jack made it back to Oklahoma and is now at home with family, focusing on his sobriety. Sandy remained in LA, and within days of our interview, we heard she returned to one of Pablos facilities, and after months of searching, Deb and Tim finally found their son, Christopher, he's now home, and they're working on finding a legitimate treatment center that can give him the help he needs in.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai







